---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2005-03-26T00:00:00Z"
summary: today i shall bew bland and newsy b/c i’m too warped to be funny and too
  jaded to be artsy.  i feel like complete shit today for no real reason.  last night
  was a our big, the ski season’s almost over fuckers party.  as per my usual i got
  on the near side of trashed, just coherent enough to convince many others that i’m
  not trashed and just trashed enough to through out my ensemble of social conditionings,
  self-loathings and general wallflowerness.  then i went home with a woman.  nothing
  happened, as half-way home i realized what the fuck, over? and ended up sleeping
  in the guest bed, on top of the covers, still in my gorilla suit.  but alas, everyone
  saw me leave with her.  now don’t get me wrong, she isn’t an unattractive woman,
  but i had quite the reputation brewing up here and now i’m wondering if that isn’t
  just a little bit altered.  had i had one less vodka drink i think everything would
  have been OK as i would have come to my WTF, mate epiphany a few minutes earlier
  and wouldn’t have left with her.  but whatever, i don’t really really care.  plus
  i think that my boss lady friend is seeing someone else, a friend of mine, on the
  sly.  that is another aspect to my feeling like shit today.  stir in a teaspoon
  of good ole’ hungover and you got yourself quite a dish of crap.
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

today i shall bew bland and newsy b/c i’m too warped to be funny and too jaded to be artsy.  i feel like complete shit today for no real reason.  last night was a our big, the ski season’s almost over fuckers party.  as per my usual i got on the near side of trashed, just coherent enough to convince many others that i’m not trashed and just trashed enough to through out my ensemble of social conditionings, self-loathings and general wallflowerness.  then i went home with a woman.  nothing happened, as half-way home i realized what the fuck, over? and ended up sleeping in the guest bed, on top of the covers, still in my gorilla suit.  but alas, everyone saw me leave with her.  now don’t get me wrong, she isn’t an unattractive woman, but i had quite the reputation brewing up here and now i’m wondering if that isn’t just a little bit altered.  had i had one less vodka drink i think everything would have been OK as i would have come to my WTF, mate epiphany a few minutes earlier and wouldn’t have left with her.  but whatever, i don’t really really care.  plus i think that my boss lady friend is seeing someone else, a friend of mine, on the sly.  that is another aspect to my feeling like shit today.  stir in a teaspoon of good ole’ hungover and you got yourself quite a dish of crap.

have finally sketched out the summary for what will be the final runthrough of the shield proposal.  if he doesn’t accept this one then i surrender.  this is original and scary and good and fuck him if he doesn’t see that.  i think he will, but i’m just laying down the law.  

at least i have decided to stay for the summer, have decided to accept the hiking guide job and have decided to stay in this apartment.  that feels good, and the only real decision i have to make now is whether or not i’ll be here the last week of august or in nashville.  am thinking that it will be nashville unless some very specific and grand things happen to make me stay.  although what those could be, even with my "specific" word choice, i only semi-know.  i know what things could complicate a decision, but i’m not sure what would complicate it to the point of tipping the scales in a direction that my logic has not leaned it towards already.  as if that makes sense…?

took a long walk and sat by the river.  it is engorged today from all the snow we’ve been having followed closely by warm temperatures.  haven’t ridden my snowboard in two days, must do that tomorrow.  now i’m drivelling and you have stopped caring.  good-bye

~ # ~