---
categories:
- learning
comments: true
date: "2005-09-03T00:00:00Z"
summary: 'A friend asked me why I’m here.  This was the best I could come up with:'
meta: true
published: true
title: Reasons
---

A friend asked me why I’m here.  This was the best I could come up with:

> I DID decide to come to law school for an assundry of reasons.  I don’t  
> ever see myself becoming one of "those" lawyers to whom you refer.  
> That has never been my style, I like to save my fights for something I  
> care about, not things that don’t really matter.  One of the very few  
> things that I think that I’ve learned in life is the difference  
> therein, what matters and what doesn’t matter.
> 
> But back to my reasons.  They are many, but they basically came down to  
> a failure to finalize the next deal and give myself some assurances  
> that the writing career was going to launch for real.  When I found  
> that out then it was still not an easy choice.  For a long time I  
> thought that coming here and doing this was a complete compromise of a  
> value system that I had steadily developed over my two year repose in  
> bum land.  Arguably creating a value system while you are bumming is  
> not really a sane thing to do b/c it would inherently serve merely to  
> propagate that lifestyle.  That conceded, I think I constructed it  
> fairly lucidly.  And I believed in it, but I came here  
> notwithstanding.  
> 
> I have realized over the course of the last two weeks that I am not  
> violating that value system by being here.  I am probably still within  
> that bounds of that value system.  I had been so focused on law  
> school=debt=need for financial assurances=selling out to the firm  
> lifestyle=doing stuff that I don’t want to do and living in a place I  
> don’t want to live.
> 
> My epiphany has come in regards to the end of the chain of logic.  It  
> doesn’t necessarily follow that I will have to do stuff that I don’t  
> want to do, in fact if I play my cards correctly there are a lot of  
> really tool things that you can do.  And plus, NYC isn’t Aspen but I’ve  
> always wanted to live there just like I have always wanted to live on  
> vacation.  So in fact they are the same thing (the environments) they  
> just embrace different aspects of my complicated desire spectrum.
> 
> Whatever.  The point is that I really felt like a fucking failure when  
> I came here, like a sellout, but now I’m realizing that I’m certainly  
> not a failure and as long as I don’t sellout I’m not a sellout.  

So for whatever it is worth there it is.  I have some blogging to do this weekend.  There are some things and thoughts to share, we’ll get around to this thing Yet.  Don’t fret.

~ # ~