---
categories:
- music
comments: true
date: "2007-05-08T00:00:00Z"
summary: i have been thinking recently that an interesting sociological study would
  trace paterns (if they exist) and links between musical genres and poverty and/or
  conflict.  this is the story that got me thinking these thoughts…
meta: true
published: true
title: hip hop
---

i have been thinking recently that an interesting sociological study would trace paterns (if they exist) and links between musical genres and poverty and/or conflict.  this is the story that got me thinking these thoughts…

maybe two weeks ago some friends of ours told us of an album launch at the YSC (young sportsmen’s club).  thinking that it would be interesting i tried to get a big group of people to go.  i also invited fouday, one of my gaurds, the youngest of them, as i thought it would be a nice night out, although i conceded in my mind that he may be stygmatized by hanging out with white people, i sidelined that thought b/c i thought at the end of the day maybe i can buy his muslim ass enough sodas that he’ll be so sugar-high that maybe he won’t care.  plus it is the whole, i’m white, i want to do good b/c i feel guilty when i think about my life back home, scenario which i have found myself in more times than i can count…almost to the point of cynicism…almost.  that aside, we had a group of people to go to this thing.  

i had actually met the singer, Paps, at a beachside bar only a few weeks after i arrived.  brett and i went down there for a few beers and met a sort-of-friend and her two friends, one of which is this white brit 24 y/o guy and his friend, a singer: Paps.  The brit has now sunk his lifesavings (whatever that can amount to at 24) into getting Paps album off the ground.  

this was to be their big night.  they had booked the place, they had booked, essentially, the entire Salone music scene in order to come out and support Paps’ album launch and then Paps was going to perform.  we got there and it was packed with locals sitting on delipidated chairs on this terrace overlooking tennis courts/basketball courts.  i met fouday and we all went in.  the entrance fee was five thousand leones and the CD was ten thousand, essentially $2 and $4.  we didn’t have to buy the cd’s, but see prior paragraph for why we all did!  

there were about seventy-eight opening acts.  at least it felt like that.  it was so interesting to see.  very communal.  people would come out to "sing" (why in quotes to come) one song, half a song, two and a half songs.  people would hop up on the stage when they would get excited or a lyric was funny.  people would cross deck and come out on other group’s songs.  we heard, essentially, the entire Salone sound track – every song which we hear every night we go out (there aren’t that many, as this place isn’t that big).  

none of this was much different than watching [dave chappelle’s block party][1] on showtime, laying on my nice green couch with a beer in hand…except for the sweat and the smells and the bar-b-q chicken which are spicy as hell (frying is expensive).  what WAS different than watching that is that here they only had two mic’s.  one had to stay with the MC for much of the time, but in a pinch it was passed to the performers.  the performers were always messing with the mic, for a minute i couldn’t figure out what was going on.  only after the second performer did i realize what was going on.  these guys didn’t have enough money to produce a backing track so what was happening was they were merely lip syncing.  the fiddling with the mic was them turning it off when the song started and on when it finished so they could talk/dedicate/whatever.  as opposed to when it happens in the states out of laziness or unqualification to be a performer, here it was endearing as these people probably would have loved to have people spinning the backing tracks behind them like the performers on Dave Chappelle’s special, but that simply wasn’t a possibility.  here the only option that they have is to "perform" by lip singing.  they would a capella from time to time which would be a live performance and i could tell thes few that did this were qualified and had great voices/could rap/whatever.  

 [1]: http://www.amazon.com/Chappelles-Block-Party-Unrated-Widescreen/dp/B000FMH8RG/ref=sr_1_1/102-1712276-6191336?ie=UTF8&s=dvd&qid=1178625457&sr=1-1

this experience put into sharp relief something that i had heard before on a BBC special about the history of Sierra Leone music.  Salone used to be a bastion of jazz and blues like much of the rest of west africa: mali and senegal are known for their musicians.  mali claims to be the real birthplace of the blues and senegal claims to be the afro in afro-cubano jazz, etc.  salone used to be very intrumental focused like the rest of west african, lots of drumline, crazy beats.  but since the war began this has changed for a couple of reasons (according to the BBC analysis).  one was the rampant poverty.  prior to the war there was rampant poverty, but there was a priveledged "middle-class" that was relatively better off than the majority of the populace.  i make no claims to the benefits of this type of system, however instrumental music did flourish under that system.  after the war everything was equalized, equalized downward.  everyone became poorer and suddenly it was much harder to find the $ for instruments.  the second part of it is that all of the archives of Salone music and all the musical instruments that the invaders could find were burned during the Freetown invasion in January, 1999.  

the third thing that I think, this was not in the BBC analysis but is only from my superficial observation, is that b/c of the war there was a massive hardening of this society.  gang rap became a standard b/c of the psyiological responses which the rebels were able to create in their footsoldiers and thus they enticed them to fight by giving them drugs and playing tupac.  of course it is much more complex than this, but i think that american gang rap and less militant forms of hip hop took root here in a way that other west african societies seems to lack (outside of liberia which is supposedly very similar to Salone in this regard) due to the necessities of a hard civil war.  it was a coping mechanism as well as an enabling mechanism for the young and not so young soldiers.  at least it makes sense to me that that may be the case.

so hip hop became the standard and now what happens is that many performers record their voice tracks a capella on whatever they can find whereever they can find it and then send the tracks abroad for some producer they’ve never met, but only emailed, to put backing tracks to.  after a round or two a cd is produced and mp3′s are emailed back here for someone to burn onto a CD.  

[have heard][2] that musicians in iraq are making music along similar lines, but there the major concern isn’t so much the money as the socially imposed lack of freedom to assemble in anything other than one’s house as well as the rising fundamental muslim extremism who takes issue with hip hop generally and their music specifically.  

 [2]: http://www.amazon.com/I-Know-Im-Not-Alone/dp/B000G8NX9G/ref=sr_1_2/102-1712276-6191336?ie=UTF8&s=dvd&qid=1178625377&sr=1-2

nevertheless i think that a more competent than i sociologist could publish a good paper following these trends.  but for now, here is Paps singing about corruption in Salone.  if you want his CD please tell me and i’ll buy here to support the artist and bring it home with me.

[let\_we\_clean_salone.mp3][3] 

 [3]: http://caseykuhlman.typepad.com/underwater/files/05_let_we_clean_salone.mp3

~ # ~