---
categories:
- living
comments: true
date: "2006-08-09T00:00:00Z"
excerpt: my mamo passed away on friday morning.  i didn’t even know how bad it was
  until i flew into nashville on thursday.  my mom called after i picked up portlanders
  and told us to come to the hospital, because she didn’t think that mamo would make
  it through the night.
meta: true
published: true
title: grief
---

my mamo passed away on friday morning.  i didn’t even know how bad it was until i flew into nashville on thursday.  my mom called after i picked up portlanders and told us to come to the hospital, because she didn’t think that mamo would make it through the night.

that made for a somber drive.

we arrived at about 3:30 a.m. at the hospital.  she was asleep, but not comatose.  she was responsive, but only with grunts.  she had no conscious muscular control.  when we walked in my mom said that the groans became louder and closer together.  the loudest came when i made a little funny.  i will tell myself she was laughing with us.  it was hard to see her like that.  i couldn’t even hold her hand.

now i’ve thought about seeing mamo in this condition, but it was too hard to pursue and so i sloughed it off.  

we left about 4:30 or 5 a.m. and headed to the house.  i was on four hours sleep in four days so i was a bit tired.  i feel asleep in my clothes when we got to the house.  the next thing i knew cam walked in my room.  it was 11:35 friday morning, august 4, 2006.  she had just passed.

i washed my face and we all piled into a few cars.  we went to the hospital.  the door was closed when we arrived, mom said they were prepping her (taking out the IV’s and catheters, etc.).  the nurse finished up and opened the door for us.  i walked in and lasted about ten seconds.  i could not look at her.  i was a heap, a wreck, a mess.  i ran out into the hall and wept.  after i recovered i forced myself back into the room.  

i sat with her for an hour or two.  people came and went.  we swung from weeping to hillarious laughter.  it was so emotional that the emotions came out forcefully on either side of the spectrum, but never once were they in the middle.  unless you consider numbness and disbelief in the middle.  after everyone left, doni and i were all that remained.  she gave me a minute alone.  i kissed mamo’s forehead.  i told her how much i loved her.  i told her good-bye.  then i gave doni her turn.  i drove home alone and blared this radiohead song that i love over and over.  at one point i pulled to the side of the road, or at least it seemed like the side of the road but i couldn’t tell as i couldn’t see.  i was weeping.

the next days went in a blur of preparations, etc.

the funeral came.  i was nervous.  i was unprepared emotionally.  i felt as if i had no more tears to cry, that i was dehydrated to the point of solitude.  i was wrong.  beaner started the service with a wonderful speech, "what mamo taught me."  aunt bee ended it with, "10 things my mom taught me."  it was beautiful and fitting.  mamo would have approved.  i lasted through the ceremony in my seat only due to the support of my mom, doni and a box of tissues.

i drove UD’s truck to the burial.  the spot is nice.  mamo picked it out.  i think it is near bapa, but i thought it would be rude to go see him that day.  plus by the time they lowered her into the ground and covered her in that sweet georgia red clay–the smell of which i will forever associate with playing during the childhood summers spent at her house: gardening with bapa, mud slides with kelley and marla, and generally just being with HER–i was too spent to shed any more tears.  

i grieved harder than i ever have in my life.  i wept like i have never wept before.  i always knew it would be this way when she passed on.  she was everything to me.  my rock, my solitude, my beacon, my home.  the loss is especially poignant in that since mom and dad have split her home is my only real home.  the only home that remained stationary in my constantly revolving door of a life.  now that home is just a building.  her sister was over for part of the weekend and every time i looked at her sister from an off angle i saw HER and shuddered.  a few times i thought, mamo isn’t gone, she’s right there talking to mom.  and then it clicked that she was gone.  i will never again get to lay my head in her lap and listen to her read a devotional or a story with the best reading voice i’ve ever heard or will ever hear.  i will never again get to thank her for yet another majestic fresh peach cobbler with her biscuit crust.  i will never again get to see her look when i laid a sarcastic wry comment on her and then to get sucked up into her infectious laugh.  she knew me as well as anyone.  

she never cared how long i had been gone.  it could have been a year in a war or fifteen minutes to go to the store.  she always welcomed me with the same smile.  now i must let her go with a similar smile, and relish what she gave me.

~ # ~