---

layout: post
title: 
published: true
comments: true
meta: true
category: otherwise
excerpt: "decisions decisions decisions.  i guess that i have made my bed and now i’ll revel in it.  i put in the applications at aspen and heard back from the chica there yesterday.  she seemed anxious to interview me, i’m sure i can talk my way into the job.  i was already planning to leave on friday to get there for vail’s job fair on saturday.  now i suspect that i’ll leave here as soon as i close the loops on two different things."

---

decisions decisions decisions.  i guess that i have made my bed and now i’ll revel in it.  i put in the applications at aspen and heard back from the chica there yesterday.  she seemed anxious to interview me, i’m sure i can talk my way into the job.  i was already planning to leave on friday to get there for vail’s job fair on saturday.  now i suspect that i’ll leave here as soon as i close the loops on two different things.

the first is to wait until the rack comes in the mail.  i broke down and ordered it even though i didn’t want to spend the moola.  i had to have something to carry the boards and my bouldering pad on.  it’ll just make everything easier.  

the second is to finally sell the van.  i lowered the prices through the floor on ebay and have been getting some good bites even though i’m only a day into the auction which will end on wednesday.

so worst case scenario i’ll be able to leave on thursday now for an interview on friday.  best case scenario the van sells early on buy it now and the rack gets here as scheduled on tuesday.  then i could leave on wednesday for a thursday interview.  

i suspect that this is one of those things where the earlier the better my chances of getting a job are.  aspen looks very kool, dwarfing the cool quotient of mammoth.  they are having the X games there.  they have two different concert series that roll through town.  there are 100 bars and restaurants and coffee shops.  there are four mountains to ride/ski.  so many aspects make it a good decision.

of course i don’t have the job, but my ego tells me that i will. and i feel really good about the aspen decision if it comes to fruitition.  we’ll see.

shooter has gone to D&A even though the rewrites are not complete.  we should be getting the money on that before thanksgiving.  jim has the two proposals we’ve worked up now.  he gets back from san diego on sunday so we should get some feedback this week.  lots happening.

we’re watching the world’s biggest outdoor cocktail party and i just saw the funniest commercial.  a cow decked out in flippers and floaties and a pool skirt jumped off this diving board at a bar-b-q and drowned out the burgers.  then there was a cow draped in a sign, "eat mor chikin."  which, of course, is the chik-fil-a motto.

f-ing hi-larry-ous.  

keep on keepin’ on….we’ll see how things go.

watched two movies this week:  huckabees and friday night lights.  i want to speak on huckabees, maybe later, maybe not.

~ # ~