---
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/273
st_tiny_url:
  - |
    |
        http://wsl.so/AzkrFU
        
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330185617
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365808128
categories:
  - otherwise
---
# 

i think that something interesting to study would be the history of companionship.  at what points in history have people really desired true companionship and partnership out of their significant others?  the victorians and all that flowery poetry shit that they wrote were supposed to be significant steps in the history of love.  however, i wonder if it was love like we would call it.  whenever i read any of elizabeth barrett browning or any of her contemporaries it seems that it is only infatuation.  it doesn’t seem deep seated; just surface-al.  then the sixties were all about free love.  they probably made up a lot of grounds on the front of sexual equality but it was such an open society that i wonder sometimes how much they valued the individual.  many of the communes were probably against the individual.  without the individual then there can be no love of someone specific.  you could love a group of people but you could love someone specifically i would suggest.  i guess that was good for the polygamous types.  

now?  now, i think that overall society is more involved with trying to get ahead then they are with sharing things.  i think that my generation will have a much lower divorce rate than the baby boomers had, and we will probably be the first generation since the 1900′s to have a lower divorce rate then our parents.  however sometimes i wonder how fulfilling the relationships are.  many people are spending so much time in pursuit of objects that i wonder how much of the world they are enjoying.  now that seems a bit off the point, but it isn’t.  there is the quality of life issue at stake.  if you aren’t happy in your own life then you may not be able to find happiness in your partner.  maybe your partner is where you will find your happiness, all is wrong with the world outside your arms, or something to that effect.  i doubt that though.  yes having a companion to come home to after a bad day is nice and a massage after a hard workout will feel good.  but the massage isn’t going to get you in shape.  that you have to do on your own.

which leads to the second topic, individual freedom.  the personification of it has come in various times but is most prevalent as the Cowboy of the American West.  the really interesting thing would be to compare the two.  when in history has companionship been valued and when has individuality been valued and is there any correlaries.  i don’t know what the answer to that question would be.  by no means am i a historian, yet if i had lots of time and resources and maybe that phone booth from Bill and Ted’s then i think that it would be interesting to find out some of the things that i’ve posed.

or not.  have a good time.

~ # ~