---

layout: post
title: 
published: true
comments: true
meta: true
category: otherwise
excerpt: "tonight’s thematique du jour is loneliness for two reasons.  firstly because i think that i’m essentially a completely lonely person, even when surrounded by people.  secondly, and more presently, because i watched parts (most) of about schmidt.  that movie is basically a film students study in the emotion.  at least that is my take on the piece."

---

tonight’s thematique du jour is loneliness for two reasons.  firstly because i think that i’m essentially a completely lonely person, even when surrounded by people.  secondly, and more presently, because i watched parts (most) of about schmidt.  that movie is basically a film students study in the emotion.  at least that is my take on the piece.

and so now, as the digital cable electronic channel blares extremely quietly i will discourse on the subject. 

i think that america, as a culture has a very interesting relationship with the emotion.  most of us came as emigrants from cultures that were much more communal than this one is.  that is the background and the source of the "loathing" of loneliness and the neccessity of companionship and belonging.  

there is a flip to this, however.  those that had the balls (give or take for the women readers) to come over here were essentially either independent loners who were wired for self-sufficiency or they were already attached.  but both arenas maintained a romantic fascination with the "lone cowboy of the american west" or the many iterations that have followed in various forms, but all basically revolving around the same themes of:  choosing to be alone, not having to be, survivalist under duress, and blah blah blah.  mostly its macho shit and i wonder what a female’s perspective on the subject would be.  

that is hard to achieve b/c most of the women’s opinions whom i respect rarely find themselves unattached.  except for one…..

and there is the completely unavoidable topic and rhetorically answerable question that was posed at the beginning of this horribly not-eloquent speech.  am i lonely?  gasp.  mutter amongst yourselves.  is he really not so self-sufficient as he always tells others that he is?  how could it be? 

yeah, its true you fuckers.  i’m stuck in the fucking desert sleeping on a fucking couch and every fucking day is the same.  i mean we’re getting tons of work done, and it is valuable and rewarding shit, but other than to jack or his two wonderfully sweet girls i say like seven words to people.  shit.  what the hell?  i hate the fucking desert.  but what are you gonna do.  part of me wants to be the starving artist who thinks that success will taste that much sweeter when achieved, but there is an equally large part of me that is saying:  flee, we’ll go somewhere and make some money and find the partner in crime that we’ve only had at fleeting moments in my life.  often for a weekend at the time and rarely longer glimpsed then that, at least not since college.  hell, that was five years ago.  

but then i say, stop being a martyr you drunk fuck and just plod on with your life.  it isn’t like i’m going to be here forever.  soon enough we should have some sort of feedback on shooter which will be my initial gauge as to whether my desired career will really pan out or not.  the second, and frankly more important, gauge will come soon thereafter when we go to jefe with the proposal for the second manuscript.  the one for the first novel.  jack remains steadfast in his outward confidence regarding the project.  i’m not so much.  i like it and i think we’ll produce a quality product, but that doesn’t mean jack shit in the big scheme of things.

there is this rising question, however, that do i need to have THIS novel to succeed?  with the money that i got from shooter, could i finance a MFA degree, learn some new shit and venture further with my own shit.  it is a hard row to plod, much harder than getting my JD and the gaurantee that would come with that career choice.  all that is just conjecture, frankly.  

i’m committed to this project until it becomes a complete non-player.  and then we’ll have to reevaluate.  until that point i’m stuck trying to produce the best project that i can.

crystal method is on the channel now.  it was the first electronic concert i ever went to, with first)luv after we were broken up at the house of bluz in chi-town, home of the fucked up cubbies…..it was a great show.  my favorite song off the album is on here:  track four…..

late’s all.  have a good weekend.  hopefully i’ll have some more movement on my career yaddy yadda after the weekend.  maybe i just need to get away and do something physical like climb a fucking mountain.  what’s wrong with me?

my link of the day idea has fizzled as i knew it would.

~ # ~