---
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/268
st_tiny_url:
  - 
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330283440
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365797330
categories:
  - otherwise
---
# 

i feel like i have come almost full circle, let me explain.  

i had reached a point of something this summer that was unlike anything i had ever reached before.  i am not sure whether that was a zen state of living or just the ability to thoughtfully live in the present.  whatever title you choose to give to it i was there.  i wasn’t working, but i was constantly working.  i was living like i hadn’t lived before.  although i had taken the spill off the rock and the whole head thing i was past that to a point.  i wasn’t able to lead climb but i was able to climb again.  i was running rivers, i was wakeboarding.  but all of those i think were secondary.  really what i was doing was reading and working.  it didn’t seem like that to my goal driven mother, but that is what was happening.  it was all internalized and no one but me was able to see it.  i didn’t have some sort of a strange glow about me like i had just had sex (which was not happening on a daily basis at least) or that i had just been baptized into some evangelical cult.  it was on some levels deeper than that and probably on some levels shallower.  

what was happening was i was changing the way my mind was working.  i was observing things deeper.  i always could read people and decypher what their likely motivations for this or that were.  but suddenly i realized that i was able to internalize their story in a way that i hadn’t before.  maybe i was just beginning to fancy myself as a writer, or maybe i was slowly becoming one.  as i was living the life on the rocks in the river or in panera things were becoming crystallized to me.  i was able to look at colors and realize that they were there.  i was slowing down.  i told brian once about this and he replied with the quote from happy gilmore:  welcome to my world gramma.

and then that was shattered.  or i should rephrase it properly, i allowed it be shattered.  i had the fling with marine_gurl that i will always wonder about.  why did i let myself do that?  was i a search for belonging or was it living how i wanted to live or was it more vindictive than that?  did i want to prove to her that she had made the wrong decision those years ago when she dumped me.  and not becuase i regretted my current life, but that i was still angry for all the hurt she threw at me?  i remain unsure of the answers to those questions, and they aren’t the point of this post.  the point is that i was taken out of that zen state of everything and nothingness.  or to use an existential reference i was taken out of my transcendence and into immanence.  (or do i have those backwords, i guess it doesn’t matter)

what happened was this, i returned to my familiar goal oriented way of thinking.  and since i wasn’t achieving anything i allowed myself to daydream of when i would have achieved these stated goals, and i don’t even remember what they may have been.  i became unhappy and unsettled for a long period of time.  i guess that is it.  after sitting here for five minutes trying to figure out what the next sentence is, i guess that there isn’t one.  that is the bottom line.

but now things are different.  i wonder if it is the environment, the relationships (or lack of), or just mindset.  like i’ve said too many times in this post, i don’t really know.  but i feel that i’m slowly returning to that place.  of course i will always daydream, but i am not letting myself be driven by those daydreams, they are pleasant places to visit but i’m not sure that i truly expect for them to become a reality.  is that giving up or living inside of the real?  i’m not sure, i guess much of the answer to that question would depend on what you are dreaming of and the plausibility of that dream.  most of mine are implausible and that is what makes them dreams.  i think that is fundamentally different than what the famous successful people proclaim from podiums at self-help seminars:  follow your dreams and all that.  i think that those kinds of dreams are different.  of course i have those too, and frankly i’m living that.  i’m following that advice, and i’m not sure where it is leading, and i’m not sure that it matters.  

i could be in law school right now.  close to my family and safe in vanderbilt where i would have a built in community of friends between my peers and eric’s already established community.  but here i am, moving (again) to a place where i knew no one simply becuase i wanted to ski.  i am writing everyday and not sure that i’m getting better but at least am getting smoother.  and that is that.

in my mind this post boils down to this:  i guess that i am following my dreams, but for once the correct ones, the obtainables that i will have to work for, but not the unobtainables that fall into my lap.  

and that is what i feel terribly good about.  i feel like some fucking switch in my mind has been turned back on, and now i’m feeling my way towards a safe well-lit place that i had glimpsed before but never really touched.  let’s see if i can get there.

~ # ~