---

layout: post
title: 
published: true
comments: true
meta: true
category: otherwise
excerpt: "i feel refreshed.  i feel wierd in fact, because there has been some odd vindication that has came at the same time as an odd amount of conflict."

---

i feel refreshed.  i feel wierd in fact, because there has been some odd vindication that has came at the same time as an odd amount of conflict.

first there was the major conflict, and that one was internal.  i left 29 palms about 10 days ago thinking that i would have resolution on the aspen job quickly.  either she would offer me the job or she would tell me to pack sand.  at least that was how it was in the movie that i was playing over and over again in my head with various endings and middles.  so i drive to aspen and i interview with her.  the lady is really nice as is everyone around the mountain.  a few things happen (which would add color here, but alas, i cannot remember) that spark my imagination to take over.  "oh, they are omen’s that i shall be here for the winter, wasn’t that nice of the powers that be to do that for me….thank you powers that be."  and so it goes.  after what i thought was a pretty good interview (and it turns out a great interview, but not good enough, too much foreshadowing, i don’t know) i ask her when she will make her decision.  "monday."  "monday? holy cow that is a while."  is my thought response. 

OK no big deal, i have not been to colorado since i’ve realized that it is OK to develop opinions of your own outside of groupthink, aka since i graduated high school.  so i decide to roll down to boulder.  prior internet research had revealed a hostel down there where i can get a private room for something on the order of 30 a night.  easy peesy i think.

so i roll to boulder and the town is remarkable.  yaddy yadda.  i liked it yaddy yadda. well then i wait all day on monday and then most of the morning on tuesday.  i’m feeling really displaced and really poor and really just blah.  finally the chica calls me and says, well i chose someone that was more familiar with aspen ski schools and whatnot, but would you be interested in this other job.  i thought what the hey.  so i jump in the car and start heading back out towards the mountains.

luckily about the time that i arrive in glenwood springs, the major turnoff from the interstate and one of the few places along the "I-70 corridor" where you have excellent cell coverage, this lady calls me.  we talk for not very long and she offers me the job, taking phone calls from tara reid’s personal assistant when she wants lift tix and ski skool lessons.  fine, easy job i think, plus i think that is a chick’s job so there should be a high percentage of ladies around, even if they are married they’ll wanna hook me up with their single friends.  so i accept their offer.  and i head down to snowmass and shake their hands and get my paperwork and all, finally heading to the aspen hostel where it is a few dollars more expensive but equally blase.  

sitting on my bed, cell in hand i break out the papers and start calling people.  i call about 15 people and three get back to me.  one is a weirdo that wanted approximately a million dollars to move into his campy altar to all the is kitsch and ugly, the second was an old lady whose first words out of her mouth were how i was to keep the room spotless and make my bed everyday and keep the showerwalls scrubbed and finally the third lady seemed nice, but i couldn’t see the place until the following morning.  so after about the 17th night in a row of fitfull, stressed sleep i wake up and come visit the third place.  

it is actually a sane place, internet, good cell reception, furnished with nice furniture, a TV, heat, and not too expensive, it met all my criteria in that order and i was pleased so i signed the lease on the spot and gave her my money and felt good about myself.  went to my orientation, got my ski pass and moved in and got a post office box and a bank account and generally became settled over the course of today and the previous two.  i feel more settled now than since i left 29 palms the first time.  

running parrallel to this has been an emotional rollercoaster that i refuse to ride with regards to the writing.  shooter is now almost finished, we have 21 of 27 chapters completed and next week we should finish the rest and have everything into charlie and hopefully approved so we can look at the check sometime in the middle of december.  jack has been courting the head of publicity who we found out was charlie’s boss big time.  it turns out that he has lots of power in the company and we let the dog slip out about our project and he got totally jazzed about it.  apparently along a similar timeline jim let slip to charlie about our project too.  so both of them know about it.  according to jim that could work for us, but it could also work against us because it is possible that they wouldn’t want to make a move until they saw sales results on shooter.

well today was the apex of all of this, and if i ws less tired and drained i could do a much better job with the narrative and really have built up the suspense, but sucks to be you the reader, because i’m just going to cut to the chase.  jim loved our project.  he thinks that it is sellable, he thinks that we can do this for a living, he thinks that we are going to make money, and decent money too.  he liked our writing style and our characters.  what he didnt’ like was the plot premise of our book, he didn’t like it being historical fiction and he didn’t like the lack of a "face to the villian."  but the plot wasn’t the important thing to me it was the writing style and the characters that we developed.  we can plug those characters now into a different scene without a problem.  so now we are back to work hardcore on shield and we are both jazzed and charged about the project.  we’ll see where it goes.

~ # ~