---
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/251
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1332233260
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365765573
st_tiny_url:
  - 
categories:
  - otherwise
---
# 

am reading kundera for the first time.  it is outlandish.  i’m learning so fucking much.  and i don’t even know czech to read it in the original.  am going to reread this flipping thing as soon as i finish it b/c there is too much here.  there are two basic things that i’m learning from him.  first, how to weave a narrative outside of time.  this thing is like a tarratino flick in that he likes to tell the story along certain lines other than a linear (based on time) slide.  there is organization here and i haven’t quite figured it out.  it isn’t completely, merely, just thematical separation, although there is an element of that.  it isn’t just isolated on one character out of the four in this particular section, b/c how can you tell the story of one without another.  and that is the point.  there is the essence of perspective, and i’m not completely unconvinced that he isn’t using each section to change perspective, but not exclusively, in other words he is not limiting himself to that.

the second thing that i’m learning is the integration of pop cultural reference.  although his pop cultural references aren’t allusions to vh1 shows, or US magazine articles, they are more like beethoven and nietzche (sorry about the germanic nature, blame him not me).  so i guess that it is more like literate references rather than pop cultural.  but he does these things to develop the theme, but not to develop the theme for him.  i have been working on this and thinking upon it more.  if you were to point to this movie quote, or say that this was like a bruce springsteen song (courtesy hornby) or whatnot…is that a copout.  i think it can be if you do it poorly.  however it can add a lot of color and depth to your characters if done correctly.  the bad thing about purely pop icons is that you would date your manuscript pretty distinctly.  if you were to step out a concentric ring from purely pop to somewhat enduring then you would not date it so much and more readers would have the opportunity to truly embrace what the hell you mean by "dropping names like change on a sunny day." (as eric dsaid when he was drunk the other night. i’m not sure what he meant)

in the real world still waiting on the word on the next manuscript.  my editor likes it and they have circled it around SMP.  they were going to bring it up in production meeting to talk about whether they want it or not.  i am pretty confident, especially based upon our publicists comment to the assistant publisher (Senior VP), "I don’t care if it sucks, I can sell the fucking thing."  So maybe i’ll know today, maybe i’ll know tomorrow, maybe i’ll know next week, maybe i’ll know in september.  Who knows.

Am back east, in NC (winston-salem) visiting best ole friend.  have put 2200 miles on my car over the last week, have visited one cousin, one brother, one college friend, one college, one elementary friend, one law school, and now one best friend.  if no word comes tomorrow on the deal i will be signing a nashville lease on monday and then will spend the rest of the week moving in.

this shit is getting tight.  and i don’t mean TI-EGHT.  i mean flippin’ close

~ # ~