---
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/261
dsq_thread_id:
  - 767184596
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330393818
st_tiny_url:
  - 
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365782933
categories:
  - otherwise
---
# 

it is saturday night and i’m typing and enjoying wine and then going to sit down with my book for the rest of the evening.  damn i’m boring!

last night i had a quasi-date with the guat_princess.  (as a side note i have decided the best thing about blogging is that i get to give real people fake names and pretend that i’m in sex in the city).  i’ll ruin it for all of you:  the act banished any interest that i had.  it was at dinner when it hit me.  during the movie (lame i know, but it was what she wanted to do.) there was much incidental contact.  i didn’t do what i’ve done too many times in the past and act upon it.  i just didn’t care.  so we went to the worst mexican restaurant ever afterwards.  i knew better than to go since it was horrible when big perm and i went, but again i bowed under the wind of her pressure. 

we were speaking of cats for some odd, random reason and it was when she hit me.  she is exactly like a siamese cat: strinking and unobtainable.  i can’t really read her or figure her out, and i’ve stopped trying.  the enigma isn’t going to draw me further in, i refuse to let it.  

exit stage left one marginal interest, enter stage right another.  we’ll see how that goes tomorrow (or the next day, or monday, or tuesday….that’s how i roll).  

the culinary interest of the evening is regarding tater tots: they make me happy.  think that i’ll take a bath.

~ # ~