---
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/265
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330365583
st_tiny_url:
  - 
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365790118
categories:
  - otherwise
---
# 

Now, I must do this justice, and to do that I need to back up.  First, some background. His name is Hunter S. Thompson, if you don’t know that name, google him.  I find some odd parallel’s in my living in the same town with the counterculture icon when he dies and with Eric’s story of his friend farting next to Allen Ginsberg’s coffin during some candlelit vigil to the old beat-en poet.  Fast-forwarding and keeping my vile flatulence under control I paint the background of the piece before revealing the subject.  He died two nights ago now, shot himself in the head with a .45.  The rumors around town vary, but the prevailing story is he was old and dying and he just sped up the process.  Many have discounted my first thought that it was  drunken accident by the posterboy for "alcoholics among us."  His "compound" [paragraphical insert: he didn't have a house, the local's tend to pay him some sort of weird homage among the castles that litter the countryside up in the extremely posh neighborhood where he lives, he doesn't have a simple house like Michael Douglas or Prince Bandar, but a fortified compound....I guess that is how you can standout in a place like Assssspen.] was two doors down from where my landlord lives.  We stop the story there merely to rewind a bit, because I don’t think you know this part of the story.  I rent a townhouse in a small "suburb" of the spotlight in the valley that is aspen from a lady who is the personal assistant to some bigwig Aspen-ite.  She was married before and currently a widow and her late-hubby was some 18 trillion-th generational Aspen-ite.  So she is very ingrained with the local history of the place.  Well she is in this odd relationship that after months of observation I cannot commit to any sort of vague or clear categorization–with my roommate.  To summarize, I live with the "boyfriend," becuase she is still the personal assistant and as the bigwig grows older and more senile she must spend more time up there near him.  So she has a guest house beside the castle, nothing special in this fucked up world.  Her house is a few acres away from the compound.  The first time I went up to her house to sign my lease I was jolted into some flashbacks when the windows of her house rumbled and the floor of her elevated treated hardwood flooring shook under my dirty new balance shoes.  When I got up from my involuntary temporary fetal position she told me not to worry that it was just Hunter blowing dynamite which was much worse than the naval flare guns or the simple handguns and shotguns.  Me being the Assssspen virgin I wondered aloud, Hunter who?  She told me HST, and I thought, oh, that freak.  Well, I put that memory away on some unused shelf beside the time in gradeschool when Justin Birmele and I were filling out some form and he said "sex, yes please," in response to the "male or female" response we were supposed to give–until the last few days.  I was speaking with my terribly off roommate about HST tonight and how I had grabbed a few of the Aspen Daily New’s to send to a few lucky friends and then he responded in his burnt-out-smoked-as-much-hash-as-cheech way that he had something to show me.  The he dug for a while and came to my room, a rare occurance and asked if I wanted to read the greatest HST shit ever.  I said, why not, I don’t have anything going on, being between books and waiting on many things to happen before Jim will take our next proposal to the street even though it is close to finished.  Then matt, the roommate, brought out these rolled up things that his "girlfriend" my landlord had gotten many years ago, 1970 in fact.  That year HST was going to run for sheriff and to bolster his campaign and also to promote his personal racket and other things he and a local artist, thomas benton, made these "newspapers."  I am not sure how many of them were done, but the following excerpt was taken from the June 30, 1970 edition, Wallpapers No. 2.  



I guess some of you could see my sending this through some tiny clear wires that light passes through and eventually it will pop up on your screens as some sore of endorsement of HST’s lifestyle or his belief system.  That isn’t the case, I’m simply sharing a piece of history with you.  enjoy it or don’t, your choice:



*from the class of ’58…EPITAPH…to the class of ‘70  


The following article – or Commencement Address – has a strange history.  It was originally written in 1958, by Milton Mayer, and published that year in The Christian Century – where it was noticed by a young writer at *Time* magazine.  He added an introduction of his own and sent it up the tube to the ME’s office, where it was rejected out of hand.  *Time* was still pruning its “upbeat” image in’58; the package was still super-slick, with no room at all for depressing things like this.  I was working there at the time –supposedly learning “The Business” –and in my role as trainee/copyboy/hired-punk-of-all-trades, I often found myself delivering rejected articles back to the writers.  Usually I read them enroute, and in this case I decided to make a xerox copy of the reject before letting it go….if for no other reason than that it was very weird thing to find floating around in the editorial mill at *Time.*

The writer, Jack Skow, was not surprised when I brought the manuscript back to him.  We talked for a while about *Time*, writing and the whorish hazards of a scene we were both just getting into 00 and we assured each other, very firmly, that no journalist with any self0respect could work very long for *Time, *and that we would both be gone very shortly.

That night, after work, I went back to my apartment and dropped my copy of Skow’s doomed article in a trunk, where it spent the next 12 years.  I was living, that winter, in a freak-slum just off the Columbia University campus at 113th and Broadway.  *Time* was paying my tuition, presumably on the theory that sooner or later I would “settle down” and become a useful cog-wheel in the Luce empire.  I was a nice arrangement – for me, at least – but my clearest memory of that era is a night in the West End Bar when Jack K made his first appearance on national TV.  On The Road was just out, and the West End was jammed with a wild hell-broth of student-types who cheered crazily at everything K said.  His words hardly mattered.  He was a “beatnik,” whatever that meant, and so were we.  K was speaking for all of us; he was a young Columbia refugee who ran amok and still made it big, on his own terms.

That was the night, I think, when I decided to quite my job at* Time* and get into full-time craziness.  The first year was heavy, but by 1960 with JFK in the White House it was suddenly not so bad to be a misfit.  Kennedy found them useful, and his taste set the style; by the end of ’63 exmisfits had accumulated such vast leverage on all fronts that even now – seven evil years later and despite relentless weeding by the best hired pros in the game – the American Establishment is still riddled with very competent Kennedy-style misfits.  Nixon has never understood them, and John Mitchell never will.  They are a strange breed – cynical as old pawnbrokers, yet haunted losers, still waiting…not liking themselves too well and sometimes feeling half-dead, or maybe just half-alive; and usually about half-corrupt, in the shadow-memory of things un-done and un-tried….

Thinking along these lines the other night I found myself rooting through an old trunk, looking for my Xerox copy of Milton Mayer’s 1958 commencement address.  It was there, along with Skow’s original Time-style introduction:

# *The Corrupt and the Dead*

“To a generation that sometimes calls itself Beat came a message from the generation that is old enough to know what a moral beating modern man gives himself, In the Christian Century, middle-aged (49) Author Milton Mayer (The Revolution in Education) writes a dour document address to the class of ‘58”

“If my own history and the history of the race is instructive, this commencement is for nearly every last one of you the commencement of disintegration.  You have lived 20 years in a deplorable society.  You have lived sheltered lives, but you have had no one to shelter you from your parents and teachers.  Your parents have done what they could to adjust you to the deplorable society to which they have successfully adjusted themselves.  When they said you were improving, they meant that you were getting to be like them.  When they said they hoped you would keep out of trouble, they meant that you should not do anything that they wouldn’t do.  But some of the things that they wouldn’t do should have been done.  The condition of society is the proof of their criminal negligence.  Your teachers are no better.  They have done as they were told, and in a deplorable society there are some things that men are told to do that no men should do.  

“Like your teachers and your parents before you, you will be told to do bad things in order to hold your job.  In college you may have quite the campus daily or defied the old fraternity on principle.  It will be harder to quite the metropolitan daily or defy the Old Country on principle; it will be easier to forget the principle.  You will have wives (at least one apiece) and children to maintain.  You will have a home and mortgage to enlarge.  And neighbors who are having their children’s teeth straightened.  Your dentist’s bills alone will corrupt you.

“You protest my melancholy prediction, but the Great Actuarial Table is against you.  Twenty-five years from now, nine out of ten of you (or all ten) will tolerate an existence which, if you could foresee it now, you would call intolerable.  You won’t even know that you are corrupt.  You will have friends who praise in you the characteristics you have in common with them.  And if, some sudden night, you go berserk and bawl out that life is a sell, they will put you to bed with the assurance that you will be all right in the morning.  And you will be.

“Twenty-five years from now you will celebrate your 20th wedding anniversary.  Because you love your wife – still more if you don’t – you will want to celebrate it in style.  You will reserve a window table for two at the choicest restaurant in town, and the champagne bucket will be at the table when you arrive.  AS your eye travels down the menu it will be distracted by something outside the window, which will prove to be a hungry man.  Do you know what you will do then, 25 years from now? You will call the maitre-d’ and tell him to have the drapes pulled, and he will tell the waiter, and he will tell the bus boy, who will do it.  Thirsty, and a little nervous still, you will sip your glass, forgetting to toast your wife, and resume your study of the menu.  And then for the first time you will see, in fine italic print at the bottom, the words, ‘the Management reserves the right to refuse service to anyone.’  And then you will know (for you will be an educated man) that you are sitting in a Jim Crow restaurant.  What will you do?  You will stay at the table and order your dinner and eat it.  You will have been measured for corruption and found to fit.  I do not doubt that I would have raised the flag at Iwo Jima, rather than let it drop in public.  But I was the man who took his wife to dinner at the Jim Crow restaurant.

“I don’t mean that you won’t continue to have good impulses.  You will.  From time to time, as the vestige of your springtime idealism stirs you, you will want to do the right thing.  But you will have to put off doing it until you have buried your father, and then your mother, your brother, your children, and your grandchildren.  You may life to be very old, but you will not outlive the last descendant for whose sake you will suppress your good impulses.

“I would not steal another man’s watch unless my children were starving, and my children would never be starving.  Nor will yours’ the reason is that you will have been corrupted.  Your corruption will save you from having to decide whether to steal another man’s watch.

“Other, more agreeable commencement orators have warned you of life’s pitfalls.  I tell you that you are marked for them.  I believe you will not escape them because I see nothing in your environment that has prepared you even to recognize them.  You were divinely endowed to know right and to do right, and you have before you, in the tradition of your country and of human history, the vision to help you if you will turn to it.  But the dictates of your society, of any society, will not serve you.  They are the dictates that corrupted your parents and your teachers.  If Socrates did not know where virtue came from — and he didn’t – neither do I.  He pursued it earlier and harder than anyone else and concluded that it was the gift of God.  In despair of your parents and your society, of your teachers and your studies, of your neighbors and your friends, and above all of your fallen nature and the Old Adam in you, I bespeak for you the gift of God.”

*postscript*

            Now, 12 years later, that late-1950’s world that Mayer was talking about seems a million miles away.  Jack K is dead, at the age of 52, and so is Eisenhower.  Jack Skow quite *Time* right on schedule, and went to work for the *Saturday Evening Post*.  He got married and had a few children, and when the *Post* folded he went to free-lancing.  The last time I saw his byline was in *Playboy* at the time.  They assigned me to write about Jean-Claude Killy’s new lifestyle – which I did, but they refused to print it.  And *Time* larded the irony by quoting me to the effect that *Playboy *is “a conspiracy of anemic masturbators.”  That was accurate, but *Time* couldn’t handle the rest of that quote – which appeared, for good or ill, in *Scanlan’s Monthly.*  


            But at this point – and in this context 00 the quote hardly matters.  Neither Skow nor I understood, back then, what Mayer was really saying.  There was no way to know, without going to the well, and even now I can’t be sure Mayer was right.  But I’d like to talk to Jack Skow about it, and probably I will sometime soon.  Or maybe not; some things are better left alone, or at least left quietly.  My own history, since then, would twist the nerves of any hiring agent or corporate personnel director like the man who originally signed me on for Time, Inc.  He told me I would “do well,” and no doubt he told Skow the same thing.  Jack K never worked for *Time*, but he was a football hero at Columbia – and that knowledge must surely put a lump in the throats of all the good folk around the fountain in St. Petersburg. 

            As for Mayer’s “dour document,” well…my own advice, on the basis of experiences, is to read it once, quickly, then stuff it in a trunk and read it again about 10 years later.  It comes on very slow, and some of the lines are dated…but I think its still worth reading, even though *Time* wouldn’t print it.

                                                                – Hunter S. Thompson

~ # ~