---
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/255
st_tiny_url:
  - 
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330442327
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365772123
categories:
  - otherwise
---
# 

does anyone else wonder what happens when you actually blast one of the ipod’s?  does it show up at your doorstep in a couple of days with a "thanks for playing our carnival game" note on the inside of the cubic apple box?

on my way to dinner i saw a shirt that amused me, simply as i do not understand it.  it was one of those white t-shirts with the collar and cuffs at the sleeves in some muted gray color.  the shirt in block letters said: TONGUE SHIRT. one word to each line.  i don’t understand.  

tongue shirt?  won’t even conjecture an answer.  so i’m back from my ten year reunion and i suppose that i should reflect on the major event for posterity sake.  except that i didn’t really think it was that major.  it just was there, another event in my life.  i wonder if the lack of tv and movies in my life is allowing me to separate myself from what pop culture tells me is significant and allowing to pass my own judgements?  probably not.  it is probably just that i felt it was a relaxed happening with some people i hadn’t seen before.  i suppose that there have been times in my life in between graduation and now when i would have been "out to prove all those fuckers wrong" about me.  but those times have passed.  it was odd that they inherently proved themselves wrong without any posturing on my part.  

this is the most tangible way the war changed me.  i don’t need it, any of it.  i’ve already done that and now i just get to live my life.  

sure, i’m still an egotistical bastard, but less so than i have been.  there is much i have left to do, more that i have left to learn, but less that i have left to prove.  in the hollywood sports flick parlance, i left it all out there on the field and i can just look back fondly and say i did the job that i did and now i can look forward.  

its probably all drivel, i realize.  less than a week left of snow.

~ # ~