---

layout: post
title: 
published: true
comments: true
meta: true
category: otherwise
excerpt: "i spent the entire day cuddling with myself and reveling in the peacefulness.  odd roommate has been conspicuously absent for the past few days and i have barely ventured outside for more than a solitary walk to convince myself that the sun puts out vitamins that i needed to or could actually soak in through all my layers as i walked around in the teen-something degree air and tried to maintain breathing through a stuffed up nose that was pierced by the freezing cold air. "

---

i spent the entire day cuddling with myself and reveling in the peacefulness.  odd roommate has been conspicuously absent for the past few days and i have barely ventured outside for more than a solitary walk to convince myself that the sun puts out vitamins that i needed to or could actually soak in through all my layers as i walked around in the teen-something degree air and tried to maintain breathing through a stuffed up nose that was pierced by the freezing cold air.  

have been reading "one hundred years of solitude" which i have slowly come to realize is a massive undertaking in which garcia marquez has attempted to comment on the entire history of the human race and i have taken to internally calling it the "brief history of time, latin american version."  

have been playing massive amounts of jazz from my gaudy collection that has become unruly unless i listen to some as-yet-un-heard tune-age.  

the reading and jazz seem to be at odds with each other.  the reading has rekindled the sense of adventure.  that fire has been stoked by the fact that i have not left this place in two months.  i haven’t driven for more than 15 minutes.  i haven’t left the 30 square mile radius.  i have not been outside one of the three towns i’ve been habitating.  the fact that marquez speaks of places i know nothing about not to mention the quest for adventure beginning to mount as a major theme in the book have both made me go "ummm."  the jazz is pulling me the other way.  it always make me think of calm sunday mornings reading the new york times over a steaming mug of coffee while it plays quietly or not so quietly in the background.  walking around in a hugh heffner robe onto the balcony and looking out over some scenic view and thinking, damn that’s nice.  it makes me long for some sort of a life that i am not sure if i even want, but the picture is there in my head and some sort of desire is attached to it.  always has been.  the dream of settlign here in aspen plays off of that becuase this is the type of place where you really can do something like that.  if you only have enough money to support those muses.  it is so cyclical with me the nomadic desires rise and fall and rise and fall and i can feel them rising right now.  in one hand it is a copout that makes me not want to participate fully in life NOW becuase i’m always looking to get out of this and move somewhere new.  i think that it has become some sort of a coping mechanism on some level.  but whatever it is there and there is no sense trying to fight it.  the only real compromise or satisifaction would be found in having a home of one’s own and traveling from there.  but there are so many drawbacks to that as well.  what if it isn’t in a good place, what if you cannot stand where you are, what, what, what, why.  

i’m just a bucket of indecision. 

~ # ~