---
title: 'work: week 1'
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/work-week-1
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330466859
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365707376
st_tiny_url:
  - 
categories:
  - law
---
# 

 I  
am working on an interesting case. It is  
ostensibly a property tax case, but that isn’t really the legal issue at stake  
here. The easy rendition of the facts go  
as such.  
Texas

has an ad valoreum taxing system  
wherein they tax property owner’s real and profit-producing-personal property  
based upon the valuation of that property. In the spring of each year the central appraisal district for each  
county notices all the taxpayers (persons and businesses) with what it think  
the value of the property owner’s property is. The owners have an opportunity to protest before a quasi-judicial  
appraisal review board (an administrative agency that is linked to the CAD) before  
the ARB’s orders become final. In this  
case the tax rolls (which are “sacred” in TX) were certified by the ARB without  
protest by the taxpayers. Then TX was  
looking to raise its income to provide financing to its schools, and so the  
legislature passed a bill providing taxpayers amnesty. Normally if the CAD finds that you have more  
property than they said you had you would be liable for back taxes (five years  
back for real property that it didn’t know about and two years back for  
personal property that it didn’t know about), but in order to get more  
disclosures the legislature relaxed the back taxes if certain conditions were  
met. In other words if you disclosed to  
the CAD after the tax rolls were certified that you actually had more taxable  
property than the CAD thought than you wouldn’t be liable for back taxes. Again, it was all under the guise of raising  
financing for the school districts.

 The  
taxpayers in my case disclosed what they had and then the CAD renoticed their  
appraised value, but they did it wrong. Since the CAD didn’t utilize the correct procedures the taxpayers  
protested to the ARB. The ARB granted an  
administrative hearing where the taxpayers argued both the lack of proper  
notice as well as the fact that they didn’t even have property that had  
originally been omitted and therefore their tax liability should not  
increase. The ARB ruled only that the  
tax liability would remain the same as was on the certified rolls. The CAD “thought” this meant they got a re-do  
in order to correct their procedural errors, so they renoticed, again, the  
taxpayers. The taxpayers protested,  
again, and at the hearings the ARB this time ruled in favor of the CAD. The taxpayers appealed to district court who  
ruled in their favor and now we have it on appeal.

 Ostensibly,  
the legal issue is whether claim preclusion is applicable to an administrative  
hearing. I think that this is an  
interesting question. The policy reasons  
generally proffered for claim preclusion in a normal, judicial setting are  
economy (we want litigants to bring all of their claims in one case), fairness  
(we should not give litigants an opportunity to correct their “lawyering”  
mistakes until they finally get it right) and finality (at some point we have  
to end this, it is the same argument that supports statute of limitations). While it seems that we generally have adopted  
claim preclusion, we have placed certain limitations on the doctrine. For the doctrine to be applicable the second  
case must have be a (1) final decision (2) rendered by a competent tribunal (3)  
that was resolved on the merits. These  
three limits make sense in that if an action is still pending and could end up  
either way there should be no preclusion on another case. If the court that rendered judgment on the  
case never had any business hearing the case in the first place it also makes  
sense that subsequent litigation should not pay homage to that decision. The final one is the most intricate, but it  
also makes sense in the abstract, subsequent litigation should not be precluded  
by prior litigation that was never “actually litigated.”

 Although  
these policies are not that difficult to apply to a judicial setting that has  
the pomp, circumstance, rules and societally recognized authority that a court  
system maintains, it is more difficult to translate those principles to an  
administrative setting. I do see a  
certain simple beauty in applying procedural postures from the judicial setting  
into the administrative (or quasi-judicial setting). It certainly would make things simple for  
those who are advocating for their side of a dispute to prevail. But is it too simple to merely transpose  
rules of evidence or rules of form or rules of procedure or other legal rules  
and principles into a “foreign” setting? Without anything more than a simple adoption by the “foreign” tribunal I  
think that would be fairly foolhardy, but if the same policy issues and  
concerns that are supporting the legal principle or rule in the judicial  
setting carry over than I think that it does make sense to transpose them to an  
administrative setting. So when looking  
to see whether a rule or principle would be applicable in a quasi-judicial  
administrative hearing I think that courts have two options: (1) what does the  
organic statute say, and/or (2) what policy measures support the legal principle  
in its organic domain (usually the judicial realm) and whether those would also  
support the adoption in the administrative setting. It does seem that the policies supporting  
preclusion in the judicial setting would easily be adaptable to the administrative  
setting. It does not seem to me that  
economy, fairness and finality would NOT be transferable to the administrative  
setting. 

 That  
paragraph is, basically, surplusage since 
Texas

case law has long held that the  
principles of both claim and issue preclusion may be applied to administrative  
settings under the same three limitations. In the judicial setting where subsequent litigants argue claim  
preclusion I suspect that much of the analysis will turn on whether the  
decision was on the merits. In the  
administrative setting I suspect that much of the analysis in a case of first  
impression will have to turn on the competent tribunal setting. This is an important analysis point and an  
important limitation on the doctrine when applied to administrative  
bodies. I do not suspect that society is  
interested in recognizing the authority of a governmental body when that body  
does not have the proper statutory or societal authority; or operates under  
such a loose set of principles and rules that its decisions are fully  
arbitrary; or does not allow grievances to be actually heard but merely makes  
the decision that appears the best without giving due process to those who are  
protesting. Yet if an administrative  
body does operate under a certain grant of authority and does offer due process  
and does operate under some guise of rules that lend authority to its rulings  
then it makes sense that we should “listen to it.” 

 The  
other hard analysis is whether the decision of the administrative agency is  
final. Obviously subsequent litigation  
should not be precluded if the quasi-judicial body was only tabling the matter  
until the agency fixed something. Conversely subsequent litigation should be precluded if the quasi-judicial  
body was rendering an actual, binding ruling. This analysis, though facially simple, may not always be so easy in the  
real world. I am fascinated by municipal  
politics and have been known to watch Channel 3 while in 
Nashville

. I have seen the looseness under which some of these Boards operate  
under. I have read the entire protest  
hearing transcript in this case which only confirms my suspicion that these  
hearings are not formal trials (and they should not be). The problem is for this case that at the  
first hearings the board merely retained the tax liability as it was prior to  
the first renoticing. But did that mean  
that they were tabling the matter so the agency could fix the procedural  
problems or did it mean that they were ruling on the merits. Although there is some bleed over into the  
other element, the crux of the matter is here. 

 Our  
case tends to resolve itself here since even if they were tabling it they still  
sent out a notice that said that it was the final ruling of the ARB. 