---
title: summer
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/summer
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330437381
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365711052
st_tiny_url:
  - 
categories:
  - travel
---
# 

ok.  i think that i have it all figured out.  this summer i mean.  other than that i have had reaffirmed to me lately that i don’t have ANYTHING figured out.  and there are even a couple of iterations of this summer worked out.

in order to explain it properly a little backstory is in order.  i case i haven’t laid it out for you, i have two basic roads diverged  
inside my yellow self.  the first is to "go to work" and just sell to  
the litigation man and move to NY, live fast, live hard, learn to  
litigate like a champ.  the other road is to "have a good life" and go  
to a medium market and not work so hard, or be so good, but also have a  
life outside of my 2 AM chinese feasts, my blackberry and my $5000  
suits.  the only markets that i’m really considering are: portland,  
austin and denver.  in that order. 

ok.  i just accepted my second job for the summer.  this one with a state appeals court in texas.  this is good for a number of reasons.  first of all it will be in austin.  austin is one of my cities.  that is good.  this will be a great recommendation and will (i think) virtually ensure that i can get an interview there for a 2L job.  in fact, i will probably interview with firms while i’m there to get it out of the way.  also i would want to interview there as the firms that are there are outposts of big law firms headquartered in houston or dallas.  the attorneys that those firms will send to on-campus interview season next fall will be from the larger offices in the bigger cities.  that means that they may not have a clue about life in the austin office.  they may, but more likely they will tell me that they know and they won’t really know.  so it will be advantageous to go check it out.  in addition to the austin connection and the judge being a great reference to lawyers in that city, judge law (yes that’s his name) will be a good reference in general.  state appeals courts, although not as prestigious as state supreme courts, may give me more exposure b/c of their higher work load.  plus i’ll be in the same building as the state supreme court so i can talk to those people.  since it is of lesser prestige that means i’ll be doing more of the work.  the administrative assistant has already told me that i will be researching and writing opinions.  me, the freak 1L, will be writing opinions that could be in textbooks some day.  pretty kool huh?  on a state supreme court level i won’t be doing the writing, only the reasearch.  then there is the layer of the federal court system.  1L’s DON’T GET JOBS at the federal appeals court level.  it doesn’t happen unless you are #1 at harvard and have 5 degrees prior to being a JD candidate.  so that leaves the federal trial court level, now that would be interesting.  the difference between trial courts and appeals courts is that appeals courts are clean.  i don’t have any problem getting my fingers dirty, however at the appeals level you get to focus on what the law is.  much of the emotion is taken out of it.  much of the gamesmanship is taken out of it.  much of the uncertainty of juries is taken out of it.  that leaves time and space for the law to really come full force and be analyzed in detail.  so all in all i think that i will be the best experience possible for me.  and i’m not just trying to justify not getting an offer from the TN or TX supreme courts.  i did have offers from the fed trial level, but i don’t think that the prestige of federal over state courts outweighs the prestige and possibilities for learning of appeals over trial courts.  so it will be a good reference, it will be prestigious, & it will be a great learning experience.  enough said.  wait there is more.  it is in AUSTIN.  which should be GREAT over the summer, bands, booze, etc.  now i just have to convince cam to come with me!

the other half will be in aspen at the policy and litigation firm out there.  i am excited about that one too as i will see life from the other side.  we’re to work on a national security policy position paper.  we’re to work on some big-time environmental litigation and some other litigation as well.  it will be a rounded experience.  

then there is faith’s non-profit which i think that i’m going to start working with her on.  at least i can do the IRS filing for her non-profit status.  that isn’t a small deal either.  i can also do some liasoning with the young lawyers committee of the miami bar association and to help her develop her curiculum for these kids.  so i will also be working on that over the summer.

then there is the book that is starting to coallesce inside my head and that must be written this summer, at least in a solid draft form.  it will be good and it will get done.  i cannot wait.  this summer is going to be what i want out of it.  varied, interesting, polarizing, emasculatizing, and generally all-tizing.

~ # ~

the short story is