---

layout: post
title: "Wow."
published: true
comments: true
meta: true
category: travel
excerpt: "Senegal = Wow.  There isn’t much else to say. "

---

Senegal = Wow.  There isn’t much else to say.  

~ # ~

OK, well there is lots to say.  Many of the stories from the trip are embedded in the pictures in the album.  I will give the highlights of each day here if you are really interested…Will flush out a couple of the themes in here through the next week!

Day 1: Arrive, harassed at airport as per norm, put foot down with harassor, cab ride to hotel, drinks at posh lounges.  Approached by many beautiful women who spoke no English.  Not interested in engaging in the services of the oldest profession.

Day 2: Get up to nice breakfast of Patisseries and COFFEE that wasn’t instant.  Wonderful eggs, a bit of great cheese. Head off for the markets, heartily disappointed, almost pickpocketed.  Find a quiet Chocolaterrie, drink a Yogurt milkshake thing. Happy. Walk to an art gallery. Finally find African art worth more than a one second glance. Stare at a beautiful exhibit of faces of West African artists, poets, sculptors, etc. Find a pub have a beer. Back to the hotel for siesta. Watch sunset over Daakar on our terrace eating good cheese on proper baguette and drinking Senegalese wine.  All of this sentence is highly recommended save for the word Senegalese…take that word out of the sentence and the scene would have been close to perfect.  Dress for Thai garden.  Eat to a chant of frogs. Find jazz at Just for You (first of three nights out of four in Daakar to be here). Listen to Orchestra Boubab. Realize that I’ve found the jazz place I’ve searched for my entire life. Beyond happy. Rhum. Dancing under some tree on the beach surrounded by people who speak no English save for my friends. Bed at about 6.

Day 3: Arise (finally). Eat. Go to Isle de Goree. Amazed by the craziest, hippest, most wonderful artistic community I’ve ever seen. Run out of money but promise to return to buy art. Eat at a romantic place with Brett as my date and Urs and Rosio as our double date. Wish highlands was there with me. Return to the mainland, return to Just for You. Listen to a crazy Senegalese version of Billy Holiday/Nina Simone. Realizations of Day 2 re: this place are fully confirmed. Bed at a reasonable 4.

Day 4: Arise. Hassled/Haggle. Four hour long-distance cabbie drives us to Saint-Louis in the northeast corner of Senegal. Check into hotel where Frenchy airmail pilots stayed a long time ago.  Eat amazing lobster ravioli in a pink sauce. Find good live music in a random courtyard where someone was selling beers. Turns out they were Gunean and not Senegalese, I didn’t hold it against them.

Day 5: Walk around the island. Take tons of pictures. Siesta by the pool. Read. Eat a marginal dinner. Find average live music.

Day 6: Walk over the bridge to the fishing village side of the river. Take lots of pictures of kids. The crazy thing was how excited and happy and non-hassly they were. Once you took their picture they only wanted to see themselves. I was happy to oblige. Walked through the markets smelled wonderful treats such as skinned goats hanging in the heat surrounded by flies. Ate Boubab root. Not awful. Walked to Mauritania. Walked back to Senegal. Took a horse-cart to Mauritania. Felt like Jesus as I entered Boiyo. Then I was harassed by the border guards. Wondered if I would get my passport back without bribing anyone…didn’t, but I did get my passport back. Horse-cart back to Senegal. Watch boring soccer game. Eat something memorable, except cannot quite remember right now. Hear this crazy acapella guy who would create soundscapes by looping sounds that he had made and layering each on top of the other.  He was crazy. And magnificent. 

Day 7: Walk over to the mainland side of the river. Very middle Class over there. Take a Senegalese Poda-Poda. Crazy. Eat african food. Almost get taken for a ride by a taxicab driver until he screws up. Buy antique Mauritanian daggers without considering whether I’ll be able to transport them across international borders. Meet African German teacher who is in love with one of his students.  Walk back as the sun sets. Do some yoga. Eat. Drink. Relax. Read.

Day 8: Drive back to Daakar. Settle in. Eat. Drink. Back to Just for You. Cheik Lo is playing. We stay. This guy was the most truly beat guy I’ve ever met. Crazy! All above is confirmed. Meet insane traditional Senegalese dancers and their choreographer. Go to Via Roma to hang with them. Music is beyond loud, all the Senegalese are dancing their dances. Us white people were sitting there.  To bed at 5.

Day 9: Brett woke me up by moving his bed around on the linoleum floor to find his shorts at about 10. Hungover but not too badly. Breakfast alone. Meet up with others after wandering around lost looking for their posh hotel pool to meet them. Finally find them. Place is crazy. Surrounded by white people. Felt weird. Left after a dip to Isle de Goree. Two main artists remember and were pleased at my return. Buy MUCH artwork. Fantasize about becoming a Senegalese importer of art as I watch the sunset from the hill on the island while sitting with a bunch of rastas and not talking for an hour or something. Back to Daakar. Dinner at crazy African place, realize Sierra Leonean food isn’t so bad in comparison to traditional Senegalese food. Back to lounge bars for a quiet night. End up in bed at 5.

Day 10: Up at 6:30. HUNGOVER. Don’t really remember the cab ride, or checking in. Start coming to on the plane. End up in Sierra Leone. My friends took the ferry (slow), I took the helicopter as I needed a bit of space from them. Come off the helicopter with bags in hand, satisfied with my adventures. Struck that SL sort of felt like home. 

~ # ~