---

layout: post
title: "Extreme Development"
published: true
comments: true
meta: true
category: development
excerpt: "The [Center for Global Development][1] has posted a [paper][2] that I think is one of the most intellectually challenging papers that I’ve read in a long time.  In case you don’t know, CGD is a think-tank in DC.  Imagine that, a"

---

The [Center for Global Development][1] has posted a [paper][2] that I think is one of the most intellectually challenging papers that I’ve read in a long time.  In case you don’t know, CGD is a think-tank in DC.  Imagine that, a  
think-tank for wonks that don’t want to do real work.  My cynicism  
aside, the paper is fantastic.  Titled, The Pentagon and Global Development: Making Sense of the DoD’s Expanding Role, the paper seeks to address some of the good and challenging implications of the current trend in US foreign policy circles.  The Provisional Reconstruction Teams have been held up as an icon of inter-agency coordination and US commitment to rebuilding "war-torn" countries integrating the good governance best practices developed by aid agencies the world over.  Recently, I have been very intrigued by the idea of [AFRICOM.][3]  I have been wondering how it is all going to play out and what the command will really end up doing.  It is these types of questions which the paper addresses very artfully.

 [1]: http://www.cgdev.org/
 [2]: http://www.cgdev.org/files/14815_file_PentagonandDevelopment.pdf
 [3]: http://www.africom.mil/

This paper was a very interesting read since I used to be a Marine, want to be in development and peace building, am American and hope to be able to back up my claims as an internationalist.  

For a long time now I have questioned what I was hearing coming out of Iraq.  The public debate has been extremely flat.  It began with the rebuilding and stability debate.  Do you wait until there is stability to rebuild?  What happens when the instability was spawned by an appearance of unwillingness to rebuild?  Then for a while it moved to an even more flat debate:  pull out (and risk regional collapse) or stay (for how long and at what cost)?  Although I have to doubt that these were the questions that were being asked in senior circles, and I generally endorse asking simple questions as a backstop, if the debate really was like this behind closed doors I want my tax money back.  The point is that these are very simple questions that present a public with a false dilemma.  I have a hard time believing that these are the only two options.  There are a ton of smart people in this world that work very hard and think long and hard (see supra….) and this is the best that we can come up with?  

The discussion in this paper proves that my fears of idiocy at the top are not completely realized.  The military has realized that there is some that they are able to do in not-completely-resolved-security-situations that do not present a simple black and white dichotomy of instability or stability, rebuilding or not.  

When I was studying to become a Marine Infantry Officer I will forever remember my dad looking me straight in the eyes and telling me that he wasn’t scared about me going to war, what he was scared of was some "flaming liberal" sending me off to be the world’s policeman.  I wonder now how the idea of doing a simple NEO (non-combatant evacuation operation) in Liberia would appeal if it was a true choice of that or Iraq now?  What currently scares me more than my former colleagues being the world’s policemen (the line between military and police is historically, functionally, and psychologically a thin one) is my former colleagues being the world’s governors.  In November 2005 the President signed DoD Directive 3000.05 integrating "Stability, Security, Transition and Reconstruction Operations" as a core mission for the Pentagon.  

This frightens me for four reasons: (1) the lack of relative expertise and experience; (2) the right institutional biases for war fighting may be the wrong institutional biases for state building; (3) the instincts that are bred into military commanders are for authoritarian leadership; (4) the (continued) impression that it gives to the rest of the world.

(1) Few will argue with me, and according to the paper even those in the Pentagon wouldn’t argue with the assertion, that the Pentagon is ill-positioned vis a vis State to embark on state building.  The experience of the State is focussed almost exclusively on policy level implications of decisions.  It is where the experts in development trends are kept; it is where those with years of experience in how to integrate the concerns of local populaces with the overriding policy objectives with the systemic constraints are kept.  Although the military is filled with Officers who are used to making decisions based upon a complex matrix of data, and I would be the last to question their intellectual capability, I guarantee that few Officers (even JAGs) in the Pentagon know what the bast practices for administrative capacity support for judicial sector reform will be.  

(2) While I was a Marine I learned a ton of valuable leadership lessons that will be with me for the rest of my life.  Patience was not included in those.  Long-term thinking was not included in those.  Second and third order thinking of unintended consequences through a wide-angle mental lens was not included in those.  Yet these are some of the most integral components for state building.  I remember thinking once that it was ridiculous that it took us three months to build up in Kuwait before going into Iraq.  Part of it was pre-combat jitters; part of it was exasperation with my subjective and objective situation; part of it was that I was culturally conditioned to pack light and move fast and once you pointed me where I was supposed to go I was to figure out how to get there and at the end of the day I would have filled any gaps that needed filling and that mission would be accomplished.  This focus on mission accomplishment is hazardous in state building.  Policies may be wrong; avenues embarked down do not always have an outlet.  Yet vesting state building with military commanders who are bred to think this way will present the US administration with challenges.  They are culturally disposed to say Yes Sir and get the job done.  But what happens when the job doesn’t need to get done after a bit of investigation?  

(3) My Marines listened to me.  I listened to my commanders.  Except for those times where I was almost brought on insubordination charges, but that was a different story and in my defense he was going to get MY Marines fucked with his utterly idiotic tactical decisions.  What I valued when my hair was shorter was efficiency and speed.  I didn’t want debate about how training should be conducted or how the headquarters unit was going to displace.  I just wanted my Marines to do what I said.  Now what happens when you temper me with time and give me a bit of wisdom along with my gray hairs and tell me that I’m suddenly in charge of developing the governance sector in this province in Afghanistan?  If I’m given the option of two philosophies of governance: (1) a tribal chiefdom where 1 individual is in charge and I can coordinate with him; or (2) a  tribal council where I am forced to bargain and forced to cajole and forced to figure out a way to consensus, which of these do I choose?  I choose the former every day.  And maybe that is the correct choice, but maybe it isn’t.  When you multiply my impact radius by many provinces then you have the Cold War all over again with US Military upholding corrupt authoritarian regimes who are our tentative allies in the (FUCKING) "war on terror" but yet terrorists to their own people.  

(4) This must be the theme of the last two weeks, the US is turning its view inward but keeping its actions outward creating a narrow-minded giant careening through a world it understands little, leaving nothing but destruction in its wake.  No matter whether the fears that I have expressed supra are realized or not, the simple self-fulfilling prophesy nature of most foreign policies is really what is at issue.  No matter if military officers really are the ones performing state building around the world, or if they are being smart and integrating in a supporting role to State, the rest of the World is going to think that the Military is running the show.  This appearance by the rest of the world that the US is becoming even more militarized (when they look at the bloated DoD budgets and whatever other benchmarks they use) is going to remain true in their eyes.  Find me (historically) a militarized state that was a positive force for good in the world and I will recant, but I simply cannot think of one.  

This whole deal is being sold to Congress as with the same linear narrative we’ve heard time and time again: "You’re Un-American if you don’t give the troops all they need to fight terrorists."  Now, for the moment, let’s set aside the fact that our simple minded foreign policies have cost us in the Billions.  Let’s just focus on the ongoing, and to the extent that I can tell, ONLY narrative of the Bush administration.  "Fuck you, I’m Fighting Me Some Fucking Terrorists."  Not only do I fail to find any positive narrative there, I fail to find any narrative at all.  What is positive here?  Where is the hope?  Where is the vision?  I find nothing in this narrative of value.  

Sure, Aid will continue to be doled out because of strategic concerns of the donor country.  Under this aid philosophy it is really of any import what the host country does with the money since the money is given to the host country as a quid pro quo.  This isn’t going to go away any time soon.  Yet there are continuing trends in the development community to reinforce success (a term that any military commander can endorse) and retreat from failure.  Where a receiving country has not shown the predicates of good governance they have been given less money, thus donor nations get their most poverty reduction bang for buck by focusing moneys on those governments willing to begin alleviating the poverty in their country.  The self-defeating aspect of the trend identified in the paper is that it will reallocate US donor money from the latter category to the former.  

The most frustrating thing to me about the trend identified in the paper is the equivocation of the administration about the whole deal.  They seem to grasp the major ideas: bad governance = poor, frustrated people; them an idea arms and training = terrorists.  The root cause of the entire equation is bad governance, lack of opportunity and a void of real, balanced education.  But yet in implementation shit like this happens:

> "Notwithstanding this rhetorical commitment to a holistic, integrated response that takes account of the economic, social and political sources of instability int he region, the program to date has been dominated by military considerations.  Although U.S. government players agree that the [counter-terrorism] strategy should focus eighty percent on development and governances activities, and only twenty percent on military effort, actual budgets have been closer to the reverse, making it difficult for the program to address underlying, chronic sources of underdevelopment and poor governance."

There is a big part of me the questions if we are just priming ourselves for a meta-struggle by arming and training potential belligerents not to overthrow the Sandanista government but to overthrow our own government, seated in Washington because of our perceived Neo-Colonial Designs in Africa and elsewhere.  Anyone who thinks this as farfetched, take a detached look at the what will determine "[Strategic Suceess][4]" for the newly implemented AFRICOM.  

 [4]: http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/110/37068.pdf

But, my cynicism about the Bush Administration aside, there is value in some of this.  First off, the increased focus is positive in whatever way it comes.  Second, if the State Department can regain its traditional institutional standing vis a vis the Pentagon by convincing Congress to fund them on par relative to Defense then things could really explode for failing states.  Again, from the paper:

> "To ensure a balanced U.S. approach to stability in Africa, the White House and Congress should insist that any policy integration that occurs at AFRICOM should reflect the firm leadership of the National Security Council (NSC) and a more adequately resourced State Department, supported by the U.S. Agency for International Development and U.S. embassies and USAID missions on the ground – and with the U.S. military playing a supporting role. . . .  The proposes solution of expanding DoD authorities, however, may create as many problems as it resolves, by undermining State Department leadership in foreign affairs.  Going forward the White House and Congress should seek to redress the misalignment between resources and authorities by going in the other direction: by increasing funding for the State Department, USAID and other civilian agencies to meet these urgent needs.  In principle, for example, there is no reason that the gaps . . . could not be met through greater (or more flexible) funding within existing State Department aid windows."

We’ll have to see how it all plays out.  But first, to the ’08 elections.

~ # ~