---
title: The Why
author: Casey Kuhlman
layout: post
permalink: /entry/the-why
st_twitter:
  - 0
st_reddit:
  - 'a:3:{s:9:"permalink";s:0:"";s:5:"score";i:0;s:12:"num_comments";i:0;}'
st_facebook:
  - 0
st_googleplusones:
  - 0
st_social_score:
  - 0
st_last_socialized:
  - 1365185343
st_cached:
  - '<ul class="socialize-this"><li></li></ul>'
st_cached_time:
  - 1330966021
dsq_thread_id:
  - 154782470
st_tiny_url:
  - 
categories:
  - development
---
# 

When I first told my mom that I was going to do Election Reform in Somalia she paused, sighed and said, "Son, do you *LIKE *going to places you may not come home from."  I responded something to the effect that I may not be good at a lot of things, but I can be good at this, and so few others are willing to.  

Tonight in a random occurrence I decided to watch Franti’s I Know I’m Not Alone.  And something became clear to me.

I’m may not be peculiarly good at any of the things I have done to date.  But I am peculiarly good at one thing:  blending in.  I know few others that I’ve met that can say their favorite three roles of the (at least 5) lives they’ve led are: Marine, Hippy and Lawyer.  And maybe I’m one of the few that can talk to the Marines, the Hippies in a way that will really affect things for a lot of people.  

So, I guess that, in a way, she was right.  Maybe, I do LIKE going places I may not come home from, and here is why.  To them, that *IS *home.  Can you imagine that?  I can.  And that is why I have to go, to talk to the Marines, to talk to the Hippies and to talk to the Lawyers.  Get those people to agree and there is a powerful force to turn their homes into something that feels as wonderful to them as your home feels to you.  Who is going to help give them back their homes so their Mom’s can worry about them like mine worries about me?  Only those who can bridge gaps.  And if I have a talent it is likely to be that.

Mom, don’t worry.  I’ll come home to you.  But only after I help some others find their’s.

~ # ~