---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2004-11-02T00:00:00Z"
summary: well i’m reading all these things about how the vote has begun. so, in a
  sign of things to come:  i have lost a toe nail.  and it isn’t one of the small
  ones, it is the big one on my left foot.  on a hike about four weeks ago i stubbed
  it terribly bad while i was running down the insanely steep hill and trying to avoid
  both the rocks and the cacti.  the past two fall seasons i have used that technique
  to hone my quick feet skills in hopes that it’ll help me on the snow covered mountains.
  it didn’t really help me that i can pinpoint last year, but i stuck to the technique
  this year…dumby me, huh?  well, i stubbed my big toe and my middle toe pretty badly
  and they were f-ed up pretty badly.  so i did the ole’ technique that i’ve seen
  doc’s use (which BTW joe told me afterthefact was the correct one to use) of heating
  up a safety pin with a lighter until it was glowing hot and then burning through
  my toenail until there was a small hole in it.  well after four or five tries i
  finally burned completely through the nail on the big toe and when i pulled it out
  that last time five gallons of fluid came pouring out from underneath.  luckily
  i had at papertowel handy to sop much of it up.  then i burned through my middle
  toenail in one elegant fell swoop.  and that one was taken care of too.  well i
  had been anxious about the toenails for a couple of weeks and then randomly the
  big one fell off two nights ago.  the entire f-ing thing.  i’ve lost toenails before
  but they were on the smaller nails.  this one is the big one baby. and that is crazy. 
  so i feel concerned b/c the only other person that i’ve known that has lost a big
  toenail has been dave and he’s had about 19 different ingrown toenails since then. 
  so that cannot be good.  but i’m living with a nailless big toe.  it looks odd,
  because the skin is still there thinking that there is a nail, but there isn’t. 
  i had all kinds of scabbing and such on the skin that i steadily picked off, but
  every time i touched the skin where the nail used to be it sent shivers down my
  spine like fingernails on the proverbial blackboard.  but whatever, i’m growing
  used to it now.
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

well i’m reading all these things about how the vote has begun. so, in a sign of things to come:  i have lost a toe nail.  and it isn’t one of the small ones, it is the big one on my left foot.  on a hike about four weeks ago i stubbed it terribly bad while i was running down the insanely steep hill and trying to avoid both the rocks and the cacti.  the past two fall seasons i have used that technique to hone my quick feet skills in hopes that it’ll help me on the snow covered mountains. it didn’t really help me that i can pinpoint last year, but i stuck to the technique this year…dumby me, huh?  well, i stubbed my big toe and my middle toe pretty badly and they were f-ed up pretty badly.  so i did the ole’ technique that i’ve seen doc’s use (which BTW joe told me afterthefact was the correct one to use) of heating up a safety pin with a lighter until it was glowing hot and then burning through my toenail until there was a small hole in it.  well after four or five tries i finally burned completely through the nail on the big toe and when i pulled it out that last time five gallons of fluid came pouring out from underneath.  luckily i had at papertowel handy to sop much of it up.  then i burned through my middle toenail in one elegant fell swoop.  and that one was taken care of too.  well i had been anxious about the toenails for a couple of weeks and then randomly the big one fell off two nights ago.  the entire f-ing thing.  i’ve lost toenails before but they were on the smaller nails.  this one is the big one baby. and that is crazy.  so i feel concerned b/c the only other person that i’ve known that has lost a big toenail has been dave and he’s had about 19 different ingrown toenails since then.  so that cannot be good.  but i’m living with a nailless big toe.  it looks odd, because the skin is still there thinking that there is a nail, but there isn’t.  i had all kinds of scabbing and such on the skin that i steadily picked off, but every time i touched the skin where the nail used to be it sent shivers down my spine like fingernails on the proverbial blackboard.  but whatever, i’m growing used to it now.

my two predictions for the election tomorrow are this:  number one: there will be the largest turnout ever.  number two: there will not be the major problems that everyone is claiming there will be and there will actually be a clear winner.

it seems that whenever the press proclaims that something will be a major problem it never ends up turning out thusly.  like the old "sunscreen" song. the real troubles in your life are things that hit you on some idle tuesday.  and worrying is like trying to solve an algebra problem by chewing bubblegum.  classic!

preliminary results on the novel proposals were received from jim, the agent, today:  Damn, you Marines don’t do anything half-assed. This is good stuff! And lots of it, too. I’ve read about half of LIBERTY’S SHIELD in this office this morning and will finish and report this week if I can steal enough reading time from my family. Jim.  

i think that is good.  we’ll find out.  

well i’m drunk enough now in celebration and in my standard wine drinking formula that i’ll go to bed now and revel in the fact that my agent actually liked something that i wrote and then i’ll get up tomorrow, hope that my van sells quickly and hope that i can talk the aspen chick into giving me a job on friday when i interview with her.

enjoy!

~ # ~