---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2004-11-08T00:00:00Z"
summary: five days later i make my next entry.  this time it is from the boulder public
  library where i’ve been camped out for a bit and pretending i’m back in college
  and doing something productive with my time.  i think that i’ve found where i want
  to live.  boulder has the quadfecta as i’ve deemed it of:  climbing, kayaking, ski,
  community.  those are the four things that i’ve looking for in places to live. 
  there are lots of other smaller things, but generally they come with the above four. 
  this town is beautiful, near the mountians, has decent weather, nice people, a great
  art scene, bouldering within walking distance, skiing an hour away, kayaking through
  town, ice climbing an hour and a half, more trad and sport routes within 15 minutes
  of the town than i could probably do in a lifetime.  coffeeshops with great art,
  funky music and weird people.  it is just fantastic here.  the college is loud and
  rambunctious and there is just a great vibe in the town.  everyone works out, i’ve
  seen like 2 fat people in my two days here so far.  it is fantastic.  well i’ll
  get off boulder’s crank now i’ve done enough! 
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

five days later i make my next entry.  this time it is from the boulder public library where i’ve been camped out for a bit and pretending i’m back in college and doing something productive with my time.  i think that i’ve found where i want to live.  boulder has the quadfecta as i’ve deemed it of:  climbing, kayaking, ski, community.  those are the four things that i’ve looking for in places to live.  there are lots of other smaller things, but generally they come with the above four.  this town is beautiful, near the mountians, has decent weather, nice people, a great art scene, bouldering within walking distance, skiing an hour away, kayaking through town, ice climbing an hour and a half, more trad and sport routes within 15 minutes of the town than i could probably do in a lifetime.  coffeeshops with great art, funky music and weird people.  it is just fantastic here.  the college is loud and rambunctious and there is just a great vibe in the town.  everyone works out, i’ve seen like 2 fat people in my two days here so far.  it is fantastic.  well i’ll get off boulder’s crank now i’ve done enough!  

but to get here in the form that would really be acceptable it’ll take a little while.  at least through the winter.  i could must stay here, find a job and a room somewhere and settle down.  i don’t think that is how i’d like to roll it.  i think that i’d really like to settle here, with my stuff, in an apartment, yaddy yadda.  but that will take money which i don’t have and time which i do have.  they will have to coincede and have not yet.  

the good thing about visiting this town is that i feel like i’m coming to grips with the picture of how my life will be if the writing thing can actually happen.  i’ve retained a good grasp of what lawyer casey would be like:  vandy, nyc, suburbia.  but i have had too many pictures of what writer casey would look like.  i think that this would be it.  boulder-writer-casey.  i like the thought.  just like always it seems i’m in a holding pattern.  hopefully jim will get back to us this week with some news and i can start planning on writing or law-ing.

i have to wait till monday to find out about the aspen job.  i went by breck and i like the scene there, but it is a long, convuluted process getting a job at the vail resorts and i don’t think that i’m going to fuck with it.  so like so many other times in my life all my eggs are in one basket:  aspen.  if marge calls me tomorrow and says no then back east for mamo’s birthday.  if she calls and tells me yeah then off to aspen and searching for tix to dave’s wedding.

i guess that is about it.  i’m leaving the library now to walk a mile or so to the rocks and fall off of them.

~ # ~