---
categories:
- living
comments: true
date: "2006-06-02T00:00:00Z"
summary: lacking excuses, i’m forced to return.  deal with it, cause i’m back.
meta: true
published: true
title: back
---

lacking excuses, i’m forced to return.  deal with it, cause i’m back.

so austin.  it is pretty sweet.  it would be nearly impossible to get a job here when my only link to the city is, "i like it," since this town has the highest per capita lawyer rates of anywhere in america (or so i’ve been told).  plus it is too flipping hot for me anyway.  nevertheless i’m very glad that i have come down here for a few weeks.  i feel like i got a good taste of the city during my three weeks here so far, despite being quite busy.  

it really is the fun, loose, hippy, chill town that you’ve heard about containing people who are passionate about issues, nice hills and rivers, great food, & unbelievable music venues.  i’ve done all of the above, including going to the Austin Air Guitar Championships, which neared the funniest things i’ve ever seen.  that competition was absolutely amazing.  there was this kid who did not look like steven tyler, did not act like steven tyler, did not dress like steven tyler.  the kid fucking WAS steven tyler.  it was so amazing, and he had been talked into competing by his friends after he was already in the door.  crazy.  these guys were hamming it up and i could barely drink a beer without snorting.  it defies definition, trust me, i tried to write a story about it.

that’s all for now.  yoga calls.

~ # ~