---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2004-10-04T00:00:00Z"
excerpt: the one thing that i’ve learned as i ease into the hottub of the blogging
  culture is that late sunday night is the time for the big ‘weekend recap.’   so
  let me see, what did i do this weekend.
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

the one thing that i’ve learned as i ease into the hottub of the blogging culture is that late sunday night is the time for the big ‘weekend recap.’   so let me see, what did i do this weekend.

not a fucking thing!  i worked the entire weekend and when i wasn’t arguing over sentence structure or the connotations of one word versus another and the stylistic derivations of this character’s "written pattern of speech" versus anothers or some other idiotic equivalent i was curled on my corner of jack’s comfy couch staring blankly at some television that was either a movie or sports or the food network.

the food network has been fascinating me again and i have no idea why.  i don’t even like many of the personalities of the cultish-pseudo-celebrities on there.  but i guess i like what i learn there more than i would like if i was watching animal planet, discovery or the travel channel.  if i see one more thing on the guide about the fucking secrets of vegas i’ll puke.

i have done absolutely zilch to enliven my life or extend the powers of my brain beyond this room.  but tomorrow as my internally imposed deadline to stop the duldrums that are still lingering over marinegurl quasi-dumping me again, and without a viable reason, again.  i had orginally set the date because i thought that was when i was going to start with the new job.  now i know that isn’t going to happen and maybe that is for the best.  there is much work to be done and this way i’ll have time to do that.  

as long as i stop waiting for something to happen and just embrace the current status of my existence i think that much of my current disillusionment with the entire world and, oh by the way, the fucking desert of my present world will melt.  that and making my ass pay for all the sitting around and eating chocolate i’ve been doing!  

got sucked into a war novel that is pretty good.  WEB Griffin.  he can write dialogue ok, but i have yet to even see how he writes action.  he lacks color and i don’t he writes so little outside of the characters that i’m not sure i can fully embrace his style, but i understand what he’s trying to do.  it has been important to jack that i read him because i think it is the book that jack is envisioning us writing.  it seems a bit weak to me on many points where we are strong, mainly the personal touches and feels of what is going on.  what does a trigger feel like on your finger, what does your eye actually do when its behind a scope.  how do you make decisions, what factors do you consider, what factors enter your mind but not the decision making process.  that is all well and good, but now we have to go out there and actually do it!  

~ # ~