---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2004-12-04T00:00:00Z"
excerpt: i’m sore.  and i don’t mean butt-hurt, even though my butt does hurt.  well,
  the ass muscles hurt.  i’ve been riding hard for the past two days, and i don’t
  mean the ladies–the snow baby.  the riding skills are coming back faster than i
  imagined that they would.  i was jumping natural kickers both in the groomers and
  in the trees.  i was taking the bumps and the trees without pausing.  i even jammed
  a few rails.  i was screaming faster than i think i’ve ever ridden. the snow here
  is really really hard and fast, but you can go fast b/c you know that it isn’t going
  to ice on you and have your board slip out from you as long as you are riding correctly. 
  that i something that i’ve had to learn how to do again, ride correctly.  the bottom
  line is that i haven’t made a complete ass out of myself.  excellent–in my best
  crazy scientist voice.
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

i’m sore.  and i don’t mean butt-hurt, even though my butt does hurt.  well, the ass muscles hurt.  i’ve been riding hard for the past two days, and i don’t mean the ladies–the snow baby.  the riding skills are coming back faster than i imagined that they would.  i was jumping natural kickers both in the groomers and in the trees.  i was taking the bumps and the trees without pausing.  i even jammed a few rails.  i was screaming faster than i think i’ve ever ridden. the snow here is really really hard and fast, but you can go fast b/c you know that it isn’t going to ice on you and have your board slip out from you as long as you are riding correctly.  that i something that i’ve had to learn how to do again, ride correctly.  the bottom line is that i haven’t made a complete ass out of myself.  excellent–in my best crazy scientist voice.

speaking of crazy scientists, tonight 20/20 had on the guy who runs BALCO, the steroid factory.  or at least the one that has gotten all the press.  he was an interesting guy, mainly b/c of how unrepentant he was.  he portrayed illegal drug usage to be on an epidemic proportions.  that does not surprise me.  the few things that did surprise me, though, was the lack of finger pointing directed at football and at basketball.  football received one very small segment that was directed at romanousky (who strikes me as an ass anyway) and that was it.  the majority of the program was involved with sprinters.  with the remainder going to baseball.  i think that viewers were much more interested and connected with the baseball segments as people don’t really internalize T&F unless you are into it.  the normal majority of people probably routed for marion jones during the olympics, forgot about her for four years, were reminded of who the hell she was and went, oh yeah i rooted for her before.  there is not following of the olypmic sports in this country like there is of: baseball, basketball and football.  not a unique comment. however, i was interested to see that football came away almost completely clean and of course the stereotype is for that sport to be the most prone to steroid and performance enhancing potions.  i am not as surprised to see basketball, which has its own problems and could ill afford to have this pile one, not get pointed towards.  it is a sport that is much more skill related and a lot less pure performance related.  unless you are defending against shaq in the low post you don’t have a terrible need to become much stronger.  anyone can be fast on a breakaway, but you still have to dribble the ball on the breakaway.  so i could see why some may take EPO which is an endurance drug (clear throat, pause, Kobe) but other than that i just don’t see the need.

my xmas cd’s are finished burning.  yeah i can have theme music for the car now.  four cd’s worth.  god bless i-tunes.  now i just need a bigger harddrive and an ipod so i can really work on my music collection!  

on a lift today i was struck by the pack resemblance that all the duders maintain.  for those of you that don’t know what a duder is, watch the XGames for those are duders and the heros of the rest of the duders.  baggy pants with long poofy jackets.  beenies and goggles like the rest of us, but they maintain them at precarious angles where the rest of us like to keep them at straight angles to the world.  they talk with an advanced vocabulary.  that is the only way to describe it, b/c the rest of the world has no clue what the f they are saying!  i never noticed before how terribly rare it is to see them by their lonesome.  there is either a complete lack or an infestation.  they are just pack animals.  herd animals.  they like to keep the air of superiority even if they aren’t that good and it is helped by the twin tip skiers who have wakes the size of slalom water skiers consisting of snow that will blind, pelt and annoy any outsider who tries to get too close to the pack.  i also realized today, well, remembered in fact, how much hotter a chick in twin tips is in comparison to a chick on a snowboard.  for some reason chicks on snowboards just aren’t that hot to me any more.  what the F am i getting that old?  damn life. 

rode the lift with this guy who was 82 today.  he was awesome.  and old.

enjoy life b/c what the hell else can you do with it!!!!  all from assssspen for now.

~ # ~