---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2005-03-03T00:00:00Z"
excerpt: i am quite tired and sore this evening.  not sure what i’m sore from, probably
  life beating me about my head and neck relentlessly without me really giving a damn
  and just taking it lick by fucking lick.  and i’m not talking about the tongue against
  ice cream cone kind either.
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

i am quite tired and sore this evening.  not sure what i’m sore from, probably life beating me about my head and neck relentlessly without me really giving a damn and just taking it lick by fucking lick.  and i’m not talking about the tongue against ice cream cone kind either.

i also think that it is stupid people week and have been loudly blinking that out of my flourescent mouth.  i swear to god i’ve gotten the stupidest fucking people all week wasting my time.  i mean, it isn’t like i’ve been terribly busy, i’ve just been sitting there when not dealing with the stupid people.  but i’d much rather sit there than deal with morons.  rule number one or not, they tire me and make me sore.

finished koopman’s book this week and almost done with 100 years….been a while huh?  well fuck you, i read slowly.  in regards to koop’s mss:  it is a decent account.  i don’t think that his sales will come close to ours, but it was still really good to relive things through another’s eyes.  jack didn’t seem concerned about him not corraborating our story, however, i was.  turned out that the only discrepancies i found were so minor that many copy editor’s wouldn’t have caught them.  the problem for his book is that he was an embedded reporter with a miltiary unit in iraq.  big flipping deal napoleon.  there are only a ga-gillion of thos books floating around and the big publishers with the big advertising budgets and big pull with BN and amazon already have their embedded reporter goes to iraq book.  his two-bit publisher just won’t be able to make things happen like the rolling stone dude’s guys (HarperCollins, I think) were about to.  And thus his book sold well.  that said, i liked it–a lot.  almost better than ours.  the thing that was terribly touching was that he included many of the emails that he received while he was with us.  it was very poignant to me seeing the other side, a side that i have been hidden from for some reason.  when you are there and in it you know the dangers that you’re taking, when you’re back here and watching and waiting your mind fears the worst.  like my craziness with marine_gurl a while ago….damn thoughts, why wont’ they just go away.

law school you ask?  what the hell is he bringing that up for?  don’t know, just thought i’d share a bit of foreshadowing.

lastly, we’re back to the drawing board for the forth time on the shield proposal, not a biggy, guess i look at the other attempts as workouts.  at some point we’ll actually get into the game on this one, i suspect.

have fun and smile, i am.

~  # ~