---
categories:
- development
comments: true
date: "2006-12-02T00:00:00Z"
excerpt: finally, after six weeks of punting, i had my phone conversation/interview
  with the developing firm i’ve been pursuing like a fat girl who hasn’t gotten laid
  in months chases…..well, a twinkie.
meta: true
published: true
title: from the land where day dreams realize
---

finally, after six weeks of punting, i had my phone conversation/interview with the developing firm i’ve been pursuing like a fat girl who hasn’t gotten laid in months chases…..well, a twinkie.

the conversation was good for a number of reasons.  mainly it was good to now have a picture of what his voice sounds like.  that is an odd thing to start with, i guess, but fuck you.  he mostly confirmed a bunch of my suspicions about things.  

he wants me to come to DC in january, which is a positive sign.  he also mentioned that it is not unknown for people to go in straight from law school, another very positive sign.  there were two things that were extremely heartening and one that was in the proximity of disheartening, if slightly oblique to it.  that is why i’m giving it mixed reviews.  

the first thing that was really heartening is that this firm really, truly is looking for good people for a career.  scott told me of one of his underlings who has recently left for a different job for a limited time with everyone (meaning the firm and her) knowing full well that she is merely getting some required predicates elsewhere and will return when she has paid some dues.  this evinced what i’ve suspected from a web site troll.  they really want to develop and keep people for a career.  this is appealing to me.  consulting seems to be the only area where i feel that i’ll be able to reconcile my nesting and adventure halves.  if it was good enough for bilbo, why not for me?  so even though there are so many areas of my life where i’m no where near ready to settle down it would be nice to have a center to let the centripetal and centrifugal forces of my inherrently swirling life spin me around.  having that base will also give me a grounded purpose and lend resolve and significance to the decisions that i’ve made.  it seems that so many of decisions have led me to temporary situations.  that is well and good, but there is a growing portion of me that is getting over temporary.  i feel that all i’ve done in my life is figure things out, get used to them, and leave.  it would be nice to know that i have a base, something familiar for a significant period of time.  this firm has a large number of people who have been there for a significant amount of time.  it would be pleasing to be of that number.

the second significantly heartening aspect of the interview is that he is truly excited about mentoring me.  i could hear it in his voice and i could hear it in the things that he was telling me.  he told me a few things that "pour[ed] cold water on your thinking" and he was truly sorry to have to do it and didn’t do it to dishearten me but to give me the realities of the marketplace b/c he told me that he knew i was ignorant on a lot of the realities.  and he was right.  i am.  he also told me that he is going to set me up with two other consulting firms when i come to dc and not in an effort to push me out from his firm, but do give me more of a perspective as to what is out there.  he also said in numerous occasions throughout our twenty minute conversation how excited he was about having good, young people excited about development and decried the general lack of them.  

the slightly disheartening thing is that to do many of the projects that USAID gives to this firm that are in the foreign judicial reform area i will need 3-5 years of legal experience.  that has to be at a firm or in government or elsewhere, but it has to be legal experience and i cannot get it along the way while at the development consulting firm.  they are block bureuacratic requirements and there isn’t any getting around them.  so he told me that to really dig deeply into what he does it would be most advantageous for me to go work elsewhere in the government or whatnot for a few years and then come work at his firm.  it did pour some cold water on me–at first.  upon further reflection, though, i realized that it wouldn’t be a bad thing in a couple of ways.

when i told my mentor here about it, he said well get off your ass and get in an application for a presidential management intern.  apparently PMI’s hang the moon when they are done with their tenures.  and i could work in USAID or state as one.  they are essentially a mobile, deployable, rapid reaction force for the executive in cases where he needs work done that has to do with one’s subject matter expertise.  this would be appealing.  my mentor is pretty pragmatic and wouldn’t encourage me if he didn’t think that i had a shot at getting the job.  so maybe that is something i should think about.

the other reason that i’m not terribly disheartened is the fact that i would only need to get that check in the block to become a legal reform subject matter expert (which would allow the firm to bill USAID in a higher bracket for my services, and thus i would come in at a higher position and get paid more, blah blah).  when i really think about it, i am ignorant.  i know that i want to be in the democracy/governance/conflict management/rule of law arena.  but within that arena i’m not positive that foreign judicial reform is my targetted niche.  so i think that there would be nothing wrong with going in as more of a generalist and getting in on projects.  i would be lower in the rankings with the plebians who only have their MPP’s and i would get paid less, but neither of those scare me.  plus there is nothing that would keep me from cross-decking were i to hit a glass ceiling and really wanted to do something that would require 3-5 years of true legal experience.  So i am thinking that there would be nothing wrong with trying to go to the firm for a few years and get my feet in the door and figuring it out exactly what is intellectually stimulating.  cause it be an area where a simple masters will suffice.  and it may not.  

nevertheless, i’m going to give it much more thought and i’m going to go into the callback with an open mind and ask a lot of questions and then take it from there.  one step at a time.  despite my daydreams.  like i keep telling myself:  *nothing is fucked here dude*.  

~ # ~