---

layout:    post
title:     "On Somaliland's Independence"
published: true
comments:  true
meta:      true
category:  "Somalia/Somaliland"
tags:      [somaliland, recognition, sovereignty]
excerpt:   "All Somalis should actually evaluate what Somaliland's independence would mean. Somalis, I find, often *think* they are evaluating, but often evaluating and emotional discourse are conflated when it comes to this emotional subject. After five years sitting with Somalis nearly every day from all areas and all classes and all walks of life, I'm finally going to come out of the closet with my thoughts as to Somaliland's independence: in purely practical terms it matters not a damn bit to everyone I know."

---

I spent the evening talking Somaliland politics last night. In almost five years in Hargeisa. After innumerable political discussions, debates, fights, and agreements. After countless hours with people from the business class, from the intellectual class, from the traditional class, from the political class, from the media class. In all this time, never have I actually been in the midst of IT. And if you have ever been within any vicinity of Somalis this damn topic always comes up.

Here is my opinion. It is one human's opinion. There are rational reasons that people can disagree with me. I do not really have a dog in the fight. I run a small business in Hargeisa. We are doing fine. Growing a little bit. I'd like us to be growing faster, but at our current revenue rates -- and without access to credit -- it is difficult to make the commitment it will take to train a lawyer up to the standards required by international investors much less to the standards that we are trying hard to instill within our own team. We are in a position where we are creating our market right now. It is a job that will require the entire group within Hargeisa that is trying to scream at the top of their lungs that things around here could be a lot better if we all worked together a little bit better. That if we looked a little further down the road that so much of the friction within general society in Hargeisa would get a lot less if we focussed just a bit more on what brings us together rather than on what separates us -- and acknowledged that both will always exist. If we all just stopped pointing our guns at each other all the time, that that would improve things a lot. A hell of a lot.

Remember this is just one man's opinion. Maybe it is right. Maybe it is not. I know this though. Those things which occupy my mind. Those things which I struggle with. None of those things. Not a single one. None of that is affected whether Somaliland goes or stays or continues as is. This is thing the that has driven me absolutely bonkers for a long time now.

Here's the thing. None of this emotion. None of this vigor. None of it matters. Diaspora need a cause. Some find it in clan and invest their money in that direction. Some find it in a family business and invest their money there. Some are passionate about a political cause. For some it is the music of home (never, by the way, attempting to dialogue in the many cultures that Somalis culture was interacting with...). For some it is literature. For most it is many. This is how the diaspora struggles to make sense of this whole game of life. It is a manifestation of their homesickness -- perhaps the most human of all emotions. I get that. I am more or less a diaspora my self, just the other way around.

Yet. The Diaspora need to think more about what it is they do back here. Because it affects a lot of things. Much for good. Some not so much for good. And some in between. I cannot particularly criticize the diaspora. Because the flow of money from diaspora. This great sea of money.

The first time I "saw" this "sea," as story goes about those folks from Gabiley area and when they see the real sea get in capacity shakes, I got the skakes. It took me a while to see it. Like many of the things that actually matter within Somali society it is not always so easy to see. Only recently has it even been quantified. If there is more detailed research that is available as to where that money flows -- particularly broken down by business, political, development, and sustenance -- I'd love to have it pointed out to me so I could read it. I know the UN did the quantification study, but that is a cursory study that no betters one's real understanding of this place any more than the kid from Gabiley that conceptually knew there was a sea. Like a lot of other things that matter, you have to come here to see this sea.

It is much of the reason, but not all, of the reason that the Somali region looks and acts the way it does. This sea, which is a manifestation of the Somali culture's nomadic natural tendencies, is now about more than simple survival. Now the sea that is coming back is a lot more complicated. All these beaming transmissions I always think of each as the probes that would be sent out by the motherships in science fiction films that are to go and report back the conditions over there. Which is what Somalis have been doing for centuries. Because they had to know iska waran. The wonderful phrase. A command. Give NEWS! Used like we would (more tenderly perhaps) use, "how are you." And they ran out of their own lands to explore (for all kinds of reasons all justified by some mixture of self preservation and self improvement) and started to explore others. But they always were beaming back to the mother ship.

Here's the tension that many diaspora face. They have a vision. They feel they know "how Somalia could be." As their remittances have slowly morphed from dominated by sustinance based funds -- simple survival was the game for a long time now -- to different sectors of wherever their family (however big or small that is) has negotiated where that money will be invested, these visions and ideas come to dominate these personal and collective decisions as to where the money is getting placed.

There is an intense competition for those of us that are here, for those of us that have to face the consequences of those investment decisions, there is an intense **vision competition** happening right now. There is money flowing from the Arab diaspora in one direction. There is money flowing from the old coalitions in another direction. There are increasing levels of money flowing from the Asain diaspora that carries a different set of ideas -- a fushion of the old and new -- as to this great question of how Somalis could be. Of course the Americans and Canadians are bring the cultural values in the decisions they are making; and the European diaspora remains very powerful. Each of these probes was sent out with a different set of ideas about how the world was.

When you met people that left before the war they look around and often say, why did you people run to the mosques? Sometimes they mean this as a metaphor wherein they mean, why all the screaming and panic it doesn't seem so bad. Sometimes they mean it as, did you people not do any work while I was gone it feels like we're having the same arguments we were arguing about before. Sometimes they mean it quite literally.

When you meet people that left during the war they have a very different reaction when they return. Usually it is an expression of wow, look how much better it is and swell in pride at what their team accomplished. This is a perfectly valid expression given the time. They have been away, they didn't do the physical labor, but they certainly and very much played their part in the rebuilding that is happening. But these feelings are never so uniform. We are human beings and we all bring our own ideas to this. And so we must acknowledge that we are complicated beings who each brings her or his own ideas to this thing called life. Not all swell with pride. Some swell with disdain -- admittedly, the so called "these people" talk. I've had it many times.

I very much dislike having that conversation as it is too reductionist and myopic. One that is here can point to the many challenges that have been overcome so far and the many that remain to be tackled. A lot *has* been done. A lot *remains* to be done.

Neither camp. Neither those older group. Nor the prideful group -- the Somaliland mafia that police twitter (example below). Nor the disdain group. None of these camps are right. And none of them are wrong.

But. And here is one of the things I like **best** about Somali society. There is a reason that I also like have that "these people" talk. Is because by having that talk I have the chance to have a rational discusion. And perhaps I know some things and perhaps they know some things and we both bring our ideas to the table and we discuss them. Perhaps at the end we will agree that ... much has been done ... much remains. These moments, to me, are some of the most valuable moments in my life. These visions that it doesn't matter what separates. Whether that is background, class, skin color, nation of origin, culture which you've been brought up in, things you've been taught in class, things that you have learned in your job, that -- more times than not -- we can find that we have more in common than we have that separates us.

Now to the crux of the matter. Now that I've softened you up with a bit of happy human chat. Let us all talk frankly. If we are going to actually have a discussion. A rational discussion where we stop being so damn emotional all the time and talk. Then we need to be frank. And those of us able should be stating how we feel. So here's how I feel about Somaliland and Somalia. In almost five years I've skirted this line and tried my best not to talk about this publicly. Why? Am I coward. I hope not. My reason was that it in the past has been without an upside. Getting any where within the vicinity of the topic and all the various groups would sick their digital warriors on you to quash any discussion by saying such things as "Somaliland's sovereignty is inviolable" or "Somaliland doesn't exist....LOL."

I have followed #Somaliland when there was perhaps one tweet a day. It was quite boring back then. But now it is filled which on the one hand is good. But it is completely infested with trolls. Trolls are those who go online and talk as they would rarely if ever talk in real life. For a while, it was utterly intolerable. I would scan it in the morning and just roll my eyes. Same trolling I've been seeing for years now. It is boring people. Unfortunately for those of us that want to have a rational discussion, this was not so easy to deal with until very recently when the trolling has been further dissipated by voices (that are not RT's of some thing that Edna has recently accomplished) who are interested in having a rational discussion.

This means that the digital class is getting better informed. The more clarity they have from the mother ship as to what is happening "back there" the more informed they can be when they make their decisions as to how their money will be spent. So I am pleased that the digital class is really finding its legs in the most recent six months. This precision of information is going to be necessary for the south to properly reinforce successes and pull back funds from failures. The situation is looking up and I'm cautiously optimistic for the first time in a long time. Optimistic enough that we're trying to get an office open there. But let us not kid ourselves. None of the conflict triggers have been resolved. Few of the bad actors have been taken out of the system. There are a lot of guns in a lot of hands.

Yet. The peace is still holding. For years now Somalis have argued to me that this is the "fault of the international community" and also saying "we need the support of the international community". These messages appear conflicting, to an expat not versed in the Somali way of communicating. For a long time I pointed out that these things are mutually exclusive. If Somalis are saying to the international community they want them to support but to just give them the keys -- without the proper safeguards in place for how that money will be spent which is absolutely required by those taxpayers where that money comes from -- and walk away they are being just as reductionist as those who say "these people" while shaking their head and furrowing their brow. That is not the game. And for some that is what they really want. There is high prediliction within Somali society of opportunism -- born of centuries growing their society in the harshest of conditions -- to take what one can while one can no matter the long term consequences.

See to a nomad, long term consequences are a stupid thing to think about. Because today the rains are over here and that is where we need to go and tomorrow they will be over there and that is where we need to go. This is a thing argument I've raised many times when discussing with people as to the near incomplete ability in this town to plan. Anything. Personally, I put this in the still to be done column. This lack of planning skills and outlook is endemic. It is not without its charms. There is something nice and freeing about only having a vague idea of what tomorrow will bring. It frees you mentally to consider today. Or to get all worked up about today's problems. Or both. Depends on the day. And when I've raised the "nomadic mentality" argument to explain lack of planning many Somalis will hedge. Sometimes they hedge as the argument hits a bit too close to home. Sometimes they hedge because they have a different idea to explain the phenomenon. This opportunism is everywhere. It is another of those things that you have to come here to see.

In the past the international community was being jsut as naive as the "these people" diaspora. They *have* made mistakes. Many mistakes. But it, as many diaspora and Somalis that didn't become probes, has learned from those mistakes. It is unfair to argue that the Somali situation is "the fault" of the international community. The situation that the Somali region is in is "the fault" of Somalis. Only Somalis can solve it. These voices that seem conflicting with one another are not fully in conflict. The point that many I know were making when they would say both of these things in the same paragraph was that the international community should do more. The point that many I know were making when they would say both of these things in the same paragraph was that the international community should do less. These ideas coexist within Somali society. Yet everyone must acknowledge that these ideas do exist in tension with one another.

And it is often those of us that find ourselves straddled between multiple contexts, whether we are diaspora when they return and get resentful looks from those that "didn't go," or whether we are international investors examining the Somali system and taking forever just to get our company registered much less run the wickets that people who are very much wary of outisders present put up, or whether we are aid workers of both Somali and non-Somali origin. We are trapped within this tension. But we are also those that are also in the position to have a voice in this discussion. Maybe it finds resonance and maybe it doesn't, but all of us should have a chance to have a dialogue about this.

OK. Somaliland. Let me say why I don't think any of it matters any more than any other set of emotions matter.

Here's how the current argument goes. And for the record, this argument has dominated discourse within the elite for far too long. Somaliland needs international investment and the route to acquire that is recognition. That when recognition comes insurance, a financial system, massive loans from international organizations, all will flow from the heavens (or more accurately from the oil holes, that good old black gold, that Texas tea that shopping spree we will win that will solve everything) and magically solve all the problems here.

Here's why I think that argument is problemmatic. Banks *have* opened in Hargeisa. They've been driven out. Insurance companies *have* inquired. They've been stopped cold. Investment from the World Bank *has* been conditionally committed to rebuild governance systems and infrastructure. Oil companies have publicly stated that they are coming. Perhaps some are being paid by Arab interests -- as a good number of the more paranoid and conspiratorial will argue. But that doesn't explain why the Yemeni bank was driven out of town. They were here and trying to operate. They had an ATM and were trying to offer Somali businessmen access to Letters of Credit and credit cards that would have drastically eased much activity within the middle level of the business community. They are gone. Caught in the tension between openness to outsiders and closed to it.

The EU has done at least one full scale survey of the Berbera to Wajaale road. Berbera port has been sold more times than I care to can count. And still when I fly into Berbera and drive to Hargeisa the situation remains.

The problem is not recognition. If recognition comes tomorrow none of this would change. Where this argument breaks down for me is that I have never, ever heard a single person that wasn't Somali make the argument that they would come to Somaliland *but for* its recognition status. I'm sure those entities exist. But they are not investing in the Horn of Africa. The reason they aren't falling from the trees is that the legal and governance structures throughout the Horn do not exactly give you a feeling of confidence. When you land in Berbera the airport is pretty good. It's improved a lot and I'm pleased time and time again by what is happening there. And then you get on the road to Hargeisa...

Most people that come into our office after being here a bit of time are in a mix of wonder and confusion and frustration. And all those emotions do not have a single thing to do with the flag that's flying on the flag poles when they go to a government office.

I have yet to hear someone that could actually point to a single thing that would change that was not simple emotions if Somaliland "got its recognition" whatever that means. Donors and companies already treat Somaliland as a government that controls its area. Sure there is some ability to shift moneys between the many regions within the area on many maps titled Somalia, but much of this money is earmarked within Western budgets for conflict reduction and therefore go to "Somalia." The dirty secret is that Somaliland and Puntland have drastically benefited from the additional aid flows that this conflict reduction money has brought. Or put more precisely, the benefits have been offered. If Somaliland gets recognition it will not gain the benefit of this extra conflict suppression money. Aid is resource constrained. Somaliland's government has shown very marginal improvement over the years. There every reason to think that aid coming into Somaliland would actually drop if recognition came.

And the trolls rise up, and shout in unison, "He's Against Somaliland." Not in the slightest. I'm simply pointing out that if Somaliland is going to go into a dialogue first with itself and then with Mogadishu then it has to actually take a look at the potential costs and potential benefits. And my further point is that they are all going to be marginal at best on both sides of that ledger. Trade in charcoal and bananas and commercial goods and watermelon and all kinds of other things will continue unhindered by whatever the politicians negotiate. Somalis will still be routinely turned away for visas to the US and Uk when they go to Addis. People will still get on those boats in Bossasso on a long and hellish journey only undertaken because they feel that on whole the risks are worth the potential rewards -- given their current situation. And if recognition coming will calm everything down and let us focus on making things a bit better around here then I'm all for it.

As I said, very little changes if recognition comes. What if recognition doesn't come. Again very little changes. Let us make the counterargument that tomorrow Somaliland masses (which are a fickle, emotional bunch) decide that joining the federal system is what is going to happen. Somaliland has reached a point where it will demand to retain its army and complete control over its territory. Fine. The constitution is written in such a way that Mogadishu controls very little within the states. The army would be a tough one as it would likely require a constitutional amendment -- but I haven't recently reviewed the constitution to see if I could find a loophole, but Farole would probably join that debate and conditions on the ground being what they are no one can take it away so the only way Somaliland gives up its army is voluntarily. It would have to be a condition of any deal with Mogadishu that it kept its army.

Else people wouldn't even be at the table, because we all know the history. The Somaliland government would remain more or less in the position that it currently is. Investment would still be very wary of the legal and political conditions in the country. Just as they are now. Budget support, whether routed through the Somalia Stability Fund or otherwise, will still be lacking until the proper public financial management systems are put in place. Infrastructure funds, when offered, will still require the buyin of the local communities and that buyin still is not fully forthcoming. Somalis will still be turned away trying to get visas in Addis. Trade will still continue. But very little of those things that actually matter, that actually help this place develop, those things will not change.

So what are we left? Emotion. And the "vision competition." One thing I think Somalis are nearing getting out of their system, is that this clash of ideas. These tectonic plates of Somali society. They can crash and collide sometimes, but if we talk to each other more there will be a lot let friction and violence in the way the ideas crash and collide. This is why I'm incredibly optimistic looking forward.

As I said, I'm in business here. It doesn't matter to me either way. Either way, I'll still be able to wake up to great Ethiopian coffee. Either way, I'll be worrying about how to grow my business. Either way, I'll be spending my afternoons on my laptop working or chatting and debating with friends. Either way, Safari Hotel will have the best chicken sandwich in town. Either way, they won't be carrying cheese or mustard and will put more ketchup on it than I'd like.

In general states and sovereignty matters less than it has since the middle ages. It is a social creation we have used as shorthand for understanding the world around us. It is a fiction that we all tell ourselves. It is an emotional thing, patriotism and nation identity, but when you rub through the gloss of life you will see that it matters less than we think it does. And you will also see that we do this to ourselves.

So if the crew screaming that "Somaliland's sovereignty is inviolable" wins, I'm happy. If the crew screaming that "Somaliland doesn't exist" wins, I'm happy. And each camp will be too, because if we all stop screaming so much and talk we can figure it out, either way it turns out, in such a way that it is a win-win.

What does it matter whether there is international or regional border in Las Anod if both sides commit to free trade that will help small and medium size businesses on both sides of this arbitrary line in the sand to grow? What does it matter what seal is on one's passport if you can freely move between Oog and Garowe and own land in eiher place?

They slaughtered us. That's why it matters, some will respond. Yes the devastation of Hargeisa happened. No one denies. Yes "mass graves" (an imprecise term at best) exist. No one counteracts that. And if Sayeed was in power in Mogadishu I would understand such an argument. Unless people are claiming that the current people did it or were culpable, and if we smudge over the fact that the North started it (for reasons that were valid to many -- but not all -- at the time), even if we completely ignored those very operative facts, then the argument would still be a stretch. Governments around the world have committed all kinds of atroctious acts in the twentieth century. Deaths and human rights violations, even at scale, do not alone make a particularly compelling case to make the innumerable changes that it will require to separate these two. If they did, every group of people, no matter how arbitrary the condition of their grouping, would be a sovereign and the UN would be full of thousands of states.

Let me be clear. I am in no way trying to discredit the tragedy. No more than I am trying to discredit the tragedy of the human trafficking boats that sink. Or the livestock crisis of 2010. Or not being able to wear a bra. There are a lot of tragedies in this part of the world. And focusing on them helps us to heal then it is valuable, but after those wounds have healed let us not reopen them on a continuous basis. Let us just sit down and talk about these things, make a decision, and all move on with our lives.

~ # ~