---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2005-03-06T00:00:00Z"
summary: it is saturday night and i’m typing and enjoying wine and then going to sit
  down with my book for the rest of the evening.  damn i’m boring!
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

it is saturday night and i’m typing and enjoying wine and then going to sit down with my book for the rest of the evening.  damn i’m boring!

last night i had a quasi-date with the guat_princess.  (as a side note i have decided the best thing about blogging is that i get to give real people fake names and pretend that i’m in sex in the city).  i’ll ruin it for all of you:  the act banished any interest that i had.  it was at dinner when it hit me.  during the movie (lame i know, but it was what she wanted to do.) there was much incidental contact.  i didn’t do what i’ve done too many times in the past and act upon it.  i just didn’t care.  so we went to the worst mexican restaurant ever afterwards.  i knew better than to go since it was horrible when big perm and i went, but again i bowed under the wind of her pressure. 

we were speaking of cats for some odd, random reason and it was when she hit me.  she is exactly like a siamese cat: strinking and unobtainable.  i can’t really read her or figure her out, and i’ve stopped trying.  the enigma isn’t going to draw me further in, i refuse to let it.  

exit stage left one marginal interest, enter stage right another.  we’ll see how that goes tomorrow (or the next day, or monday, or tuesday….that’s how i roll).  

the culinary interest of the evening is regarding tater tots: they make me happy.  think that i’ll take a bath.

~ # ~