---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2005-07-20T00:00:00Z"
summary: went and saw the young dubliners tonight at the little club in town.  the
  open band was called the saucy monkeys.  or something of the sort.  they were two
  artsy chicks with acoustic guitars.  for some reason i was reminded of the two chicas
  who opened for bush in 94 when i saw them with eric in orlando.
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

went and saw the young dubliners tonight at the little club in town.  the open band was called the saucy monkeys.  or something of the sort.  they were two artsy chicks with acoustic guitars.  for some reason i was reminded of the two chicas who opened for bush in 94 when i saw them with eric in orlando.

yougn dubliners were "celtish rock" which i wasn’t so sure about…but it really was riverdance meets pop rock, including a fiddler who looked like the midnight oil dude, a bassist who looked exactly how henry rollins would look if he let his vanity go and got semi-fat and a lead guitarist who reminded me of the lead guitarist from frank black and the catholics who in turn reminds me of david bowie, but the guy from the "dubs" didn’t remind me of bowie at all.  the lead singer’s voice was pretty smooth and their hooks were catchy.  they got all the whiteys out on the dance floor shaking their feet around, patty style.  there were a ton of beautiful people there…i know….welcome to aspen right?  but one in particular who had tons of curly red hair and a really pristine face.  maybe it was becuase i was at an irish concert that i was so taken by her.  anyway i went with my friend who was jetlagged and really tired and we left early and i didn’t talk to the red haired girl even though she was tossing me looks now and again.  but, whatever….that is my MO right?

~ # ~