---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2005-03-01T00:00:00Z"
summary: WARNING:  this shit is VERY graphic and ENTIRELY conjecture.  just painting
  a picture of one way it could have gone down.
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

WARNING:  this shit is VERY graphic and ENTIRELY conjecture.  just painting a picture of one way it could have gone down.

so it seems to me that i may be reading too much into the HST death.  it seems that no one cares.  am i the only one?  and i dont’ even really care, what I do care about is the social phenomenon the pop counter-culter icon itself.  

i actually don’t really give a damn that some old man put a .45 into his mouth, cocked it up towards the top of his head, took in one final, fatalistic and resigned deep nose-breath, sighed it out slowly, thought, "damn i’m wasted" and pulled the trigger straight back, all after he had previously played with the semi-automatic handgun for a number of hours while he sipped whiskey (or gorged on it depending on your alcoholism perspective) and free-based coke off some old metal spoon he had been using for just that purpose for over 20 years.  finally when his siatica acted up one too many times the old fucker said, that’s it and picked up the hand gun that he had been twirling and caressing with his fingertips on the side table.  the sound of the gun being pulled off the table and then checked to make sure it was loaded.  the sound of the slide going home on a full chamber and giving one final, audible resolute, detestable click were the only sounds in the room.  after one last gu8lp of his favorite whiskey and teh inevitable temporary paralysis that accompanies drinking any hard liquor neat, which as we all know is followed by the bitter beer face.  but probably not for this veteran, he had stifled that face many years ago in some masculine escapade where he determined he was more man than any of the other fuckers at the woody creek tavern and he wasn’t going to give in to them and their bitter beer faces, no matter how good or bad the whiskey, his reaction was always the same, simple zen realization that the hard liquor was trickling down his throat and going to further intocicate him.  that was it.  the gun was cool on his lips and semi-comforting at first and in his completely obliterated baseline state he didn’t even really care about that or the fact that his siatica was really hurting.  the liquor was literally eating him from the liver out and he didn’t give a fuck becuase it had been with him too long and there was no way you were going to talk him out of his bottle now.  the only way to end this thing was in one blaze of glory and since he wasn’t a terribly courageous man he would just cower and take his own life–Papa H style.  The tip of the gun pointed toward the roof and then exploded with fire and small bits of metal and one large piece of lead.  the fire created a presser that his closed lips could not contain and it then exploded out of his mouth as the bullet was careering through his sinuses towards the middle of his brain.  HST wasn’t fucking around he knew exactly what he was going to do.  he wouldn’t have fucked it up.  the large caliber bullet had fragmented somewhere between his brain and sinuses and the pressure that was leading the bullet had already cracked his skull when the fragments pushed half of his scalp off his head and onto the ceiling.  that was it.  his legacy was complete.  

it was the only way that it could end for the comet from another time.  other than being an icon his relavancy, although surely needed, was called into question on many questions by others and surely by himself.  all he ever wanted to do was to raise hell and to push his personal agenda.  so fuck that mother fucker.

i guess i really only care becuase it is something to care about.  there isn’t much else that i can get passionate about in this town right now since my sights have been moved elsewhere.  so that’s it!  told you it was graphic.

~ # ~