---
categories:
- otherwise
comments: true
date: "2005-03-20T00:00:00Z"
summary: is no artistic output better than bad artistic output?
meta: true
published: true
title: null
---

is no artistic output better than bad artistic output?

do you have to be drugged to appreciate drug induced art?

cameron was down, again, this weekend, for the night and was telling me a funny story.  he want to his public library up there in jackson (wy) to see a fiddler who seems to be a performance poet of some kind.  apparently the guy is from alaska and he tells stories, plays irish jigs on his fiddle and weaves wilderness poetry in the cracks.  all is well at this point we are very interested, right?  he has a cabin up in nome, ak and spends much time up there in a state of mental oneness with himself.  still OK right?  

well the crowd seemed to be excited about him, they were an ecclectic mix of high school students there for extra credit, families there for ANYTHING different to keep the kids enthralled for "a few minutes, a few minutes, a few minutes of SIIIIIILEnce" (paul westerburg), old couples and cam his sister and best friend in the crowd.  his comment on the crowd was they were the only three people among the ten’s that were crowding the small space that were under thirty-five and not forced to be there by some outside force.

then the guy took the stage, burnt as cheech in 1978 after a hard day’s filming.  he told half of his stories before interrupting himself with some fiddling that would meander (always a medley becuase he could not decide on one song) for a few bars before asking a rhetoric or non-rhetoric question to the audience.  from time to time he would stop dead in his tracks and examine the drop ceiling tiles, i wonder if he was counting the holes in them or merely wondering in his stoned mind how they got up there.  at one point he stopped dead during an irish influence song based on a famous song everyone should know, but only loosely so you may not recognize it as this famous song and since he had titled the song texas you could just know it as texas from heretofore, and told the crowd that there was some "really good listening going one right now…" either that or he was just so out there that they were concentrating too hard to figure out his synopsial-crossings.

the unfortunate part, according to cam, was that his poetry was pretty good and his delivery, at least of the poetry, was quite good.  it seems unfortunate that it got drowned out by the cacophony of the other madnesses.  

it appears that i will not be joining jack on the national book and appearances tour.  i’m more than a little pissed and upset about the situation.  what i don’t want to happen is for a wedge to be driven between him and i.  i’m not sure if that isn’t going to become an inevitability (maybe i need more negatives in there), hopefully it work itself out, who knows.

~ # ~