---
categories:
- living
comments: true
date: "2006-06-16T00:00:00Z"
summary: i think that how i leaves places reminds me of how i break up with women
  . . . tentatively, with an eye towards salvaging something from the experience in
  an effort to reinforce that my decision was the right one.
meta: true
published: true
title: places
---

i think that how i leaves places reminds me of how i break up with women . . . tentatively, with an eye towards salvaging something from the experience in an effort to reinforce that my decision was the right one. 

i am not prone to regrets, but i am prone to self-reflection in an effort to refine why and how i make decisions so i make them better in the future.  those two things may seem irreconcilable to many but they seem fundamentally different to me.  maybe they are just different ways to express the same thing.  yet i’m not a backwards looker, usually.  in an effort to retain my youth i try to retain my sense of discovery, wanderlust and dreaminess.  

those broad generalizations aside i’m leaving austin soon, on sunday in fact.  this will be my final weekend here and i’m not sure if it will be jammed with activities or jammed with a lack of activites.  it seems that many of taylor’s friends are out of the tiz-own so it may just be him and i man-dating throughout the weekend.  that is fine with me as we truly get along well.

then it is off to see bri for a two or so days and then i’ll spend the remainder of the week off the power grid in the mountains hiking and writing and relaxing.  

writing.  i’ve done a SHITLOad of it at work and haven’t really wanted to do it when i’ve come home in the evenings.  needless to say i haven’t gotten past sketches of characters and a rough chapter by chapter run through of the turrow book.  i am past much of my existential crisis for now and feel comfortable in the decision that i’ve made to pursue my dreams of development and not of money and posh firm lifestyles doing shit that i couldn’t care less about.  that has freed up my mind for reflection on the book.  i really like how it is starting to sift out.  we’ll have to see how it comes out on the paper.  i plan on writing (as in with pen and notebook) for much of my time in the woods next week.  i have to return to my discipline of writing and not let my adhd get the better of my mind.  "oo look at the snowfields i could stare at them….pretty elk…pretty pretty el…those fucking flies better fucking leave me alone….fuckers….o yeah where was i?"

~ # ~