---
categories:
- law
comments: true
date: "2006-05-29T00:00:00Z"
summary:  This
meta: true
published: true
title: 'work: week 2'
---

 This  
was a bit of a transitional week as I finished up with the preclusion case and  
settled into quite a monster of a case. The one thing that has struck me as I’ve been reading the briefs is how  
(and this isn’t to blow smoke) similar all this legal writing is.  It  
seems like things should be fundamentally different, that memos should be  
different than briefs, which in turn should be different than opinions. But it seems from my infant amount of exposure  
that they are all basically the same, except for the  
objective/subjective/decisionary tone or flavor they have. The only one that seems to be different is  
academic legal writing, and even that isn’t much different. 

 Enough  
of that. So my draft decision is on the  
judge’s desk: written, proofread and cite-checked. Once the staff attorney gave me some feed  
back and subsequently signed off on it then there wasn’t really anything else I  
could do on it and we put in on his desk. It is supposed to circulate today or tomorrow depending on when he gets  
a chance to give it a read. 

 While  
I’m waiting on the judge to give me feedback so I can make some modifications  
to it they have me starting on a much more intricate and difficult case. Me being the Nuevo-Hippy that I am this  
environmental case is right up my alley. Essentially what is happening is that a water conservation public  
interest group is suing a city about 35 minutes from Austin and two developers  
to stop their development which the interest group thinks is going to kill some  
of the springs around here. There are a  
couple of pieces more, but I’ll be working on this case for a while. 

 What  
I’d like to dissertate upon is what I think this is all about. See the major problem is that, although I’ve  
read the briefs and started doing the case research, it seems the interest  
group may not have standing to bring the suit to enjoin the development, which  
is their goal. If the interest group  
fails to satisfy standing than I what I’ve been wondering about is what is the  
point of it all. This interest group is  
apparently very-well funded and their attorney is very well written, their  
position is very well supported and from what I can tell they seem very determined. With that in mind, I have been wondering why  
did they bring the suit if the excellent attorney knew or at least suspected  
(which I must attribute to him since he has lost other suits on standing  
grounds) that he would loose “early” in the litigation without even getting to  
the merits of their claim. 

 It  
seems to me that the group is incurring the expense of this litigation for one  
of two reasons. Either they want the  
city and the developers to pay since they won the political battle (see infra)  
or this is a watch-out suit. I love  
local politics, especially in a smaller, well-educated town. All of this reminds me so much of 
Aspen

where everyone is  
overly educated and therefore has an opinion and the smallest things get bogged  
down due to the overload of opinions as to how “this should get done.” 

Here there had  
been a major political battle fought and the interest group lost. What happened was the city was looking to  
lock in these developments within their jurisdiction since they would then  
receive the tax revenue. So the city and  
the developers signed a contract wherein the developers would promise to build  
and the city would promise the developers environmental regulations that remain  
constant for fifteen years. The interest  
group at that point raised their BS flag and said hold on a minute here, if we  
lobby the city council and win stricter environmental regulations (the  
subdivisions are both in environmentally sensitive areas that recharge one of  
the main aquifers around central Texas) at some point in the future (which they  
have and they have) then we’re not getting the benefit of our bargain since the  
development contract forecloses our right to democratic process. Since the interest group was getting no where  
with the city council they moved on to the state legislature, when they lost  
there and the state passed a bill saying that cities could do this, then they  
filed suit. So this case has a lot of  
vindictive overtones to it. 

The other thing  
that could possibly be going on is that this could be watch-out  
litigation. I think this is the more  
probable scenario. Probably the interest  
group is taking a hard line stance here in order to make development more  
costly. If a developer was looking to  
develop in this part of 
Central Texas

(which  
apparently is booming) then the interest group has an interest in them not  
developing in the environmentally sensitive areas. At a minimum the interest group’s litigation  
would send a message to developers that developing in sensitive areas will be  
more costly upfront than normal development, this cost-added should dampen some  
of the development. Although certainly  
raising the costs some would not preclude destructive development (which I  
suspect is the interest group’s end goal). With regard to the city at least, the group may lose this battle, but it  
seems they have won the war. The city  
passed ordinances that are applicable to both its city limits and to its huge  
extra-territorial jurisdiction in 2005 that truly do protect the environment in  
the way that the interest group wanted to. I cannot claim to know that it was because of this litigation that the  
city changed, but I suspect that to a certain extent it did. If nothing else the litigation raised public  
awareness about what the development in environmentally sensitive areas was  
doing to the water supply in this part of the state. 

The point of this  
is that one of the things that I suspected all along and that is not (and  
cannot) be taught to first year law students is that litigation is merely one  
tool. Entities have goals, well they should  
have goals at least, and they have various tools at their disposal that enable  
them to reach their goals: contracts, political process, litigation and other  
agreements or dispute resolution systems. The pedagogy of law schools puts such an emphasis on the cases that do  
make it pretty far down the litigation road that I think sometimes there is a  
danger for law students to lose track of how few those cases are and to what  
the other ways to achieve ones goals may be. In this case that I’m working on I really don’t think that they care as  
much about this litigation as their two feet high record may attest, I think  
they are looking beyond this one development to how they can truly restrict  
future harmful development. They have  
used this litigation to either raise public awareness or to raise costs to  
developers or to raise the political stakes for the city enough that in the end  
they got what they wanted, no matter what the outcome of this case may be. **