---
categories:
- film
comments: true
date: "2006-07-10T00:00:00Z"
summary: i saw pirates friday night.  it was….it was.  not disappointing.
meta: true
published: true
title: Pirate!
---

i saw pirates friday night.  it was….it was.  not disappointing.

it was more violent than the first, and there was less of johnny depp’s witticisms.  the special effects were tremendous, the costume/set designers should both be oscar contenders.  the plot line was much more linear than the first movie.  there was also a different narrative arc that is the archetype for these movies, the tension was frontloaded and then like a good mile runner they just tried to ride out the momentum until the end.  i left feeling….odd.

but there were a few things off about the movie.  first, it is long.  second, it is gross, which was fine but i thought once it got around the soccer mom circuit that it could dampen the movie’s core demographic of 12-15 year old boys (evidently i was initially proven wrong since they are projecting it to smash spider man’s opening weekend record, but we’ll see how long the movie’s legs are).  third, the ending.

don’t get me wrong, the ending is fucking terrific.  terrific.  just odd.  i understand that it is the middle movie in a trilogy, but disney is taking a different tactic than most of the studios who have produced trilogies with what they have done with the second movie.

for some reason i kept picking out homage’s to other great movies.  there was a scene between depp and kiera that if you changed from pirates to outer space could have been taken directly from the first star wars trilogy.  some of the fight scenes were probably homages to flying daggers and other ground breaking movies from the kung fu genre.  but that is to be expected, hollywood can only be so original, so long.

all in all i have no complaints.  it was a different movie going experience, which i suspect is why its rotten tomatoes rating is lower than i expected it to be.  i’m not sure what the critics have liked or disliked about the movie, but there is plenty on both sides of that issue to pinpoint.

go.  

~ # ~